ON ADMISSION:
Vitals:98.1, 53, 150/78, 20, 100% RA 

General: Awake, cooperative, NAD.
HEENT: NC/AT, no scleral icterus noted, MMM, no lesions noted in 
oropharynx
Neck: Supple, No nuchal rigidity
Pulmonary: Normal work of breathing
Cardiac: RRR, warm, well-perfused
Abdomen: soft, non-distended
Extremities: No ___ edema.
Skin: no rashes or lesions noted.
 
Neurologic:
-Mental Status: Alert, oriented x 3. Able to relate history 
without difficulty. Attentive, able to name ___ backward without 
difficulty. Language is fluent with intact repetition and 
comprehension. Normal prosody. There were no paraphasic errors. 
Pt was able to name both high and low frequency objects.  Able 
to read without difficulty. Speech was not dysarthric. Able to 
follow both midline and appendicular commands. Pt was able to 
register 3 objects and recall ___ at 5 minutes. There was no 
evidence of apraxia or neglect.

-Cranial Nerves: 
III, VI, IV: PERRLA 2->3, extraocular movements intact with fine
left beating nystagmus on left gaze.VFF to confrontation. 
V: Facial sensation intact to light touch.
VII: No facial droop, facial musculature symmetric.
VIII: Hearing intact to finger-rub bilaterally.
IX, X: Palate elevates symmetrically.
XI: ___ strength in trapezii bilaterally.
XII: Tongue protrudes in midline with good excursions. Strength
full with tongue-in-cheek testing.

-Motor: Normal bulk, tone throughout. No pronator drift 
bilaterally.
No adventitious movements, such as tremor, noted. No asterixis 
noted.
  Delt Bic Tri WrE  FE  IP Quad Ham  TA ___  ___ 
L  5     ___  5    5  5    5   5     5     5   
R  5     ___  5    5  5    5   5     5     5   

-Sensory: Decreased sensation to light touch in the feet 
bilaterally about 50% compared to his upper leg, decreased 
pinprick in his feet bilaterally, in addition has decreased 
pinprick in his left inner leg up to his distal thigh, decreased 
pinprick in his right lateral leg though only up to around right
above the ankle pinprick reduction is worse in the left on the 
right, is decreased pinprick in the dorsum of his hands 
bilaterally, decreased vibration in toes bilaterally about 3 
seconds, decreased in ankles and knees as well around 5 to 6 
seconds, proprioception is intact bilaterally though only 2 very
large movements, positive Romberg

-DTRs:
  Bi Tri ___ Pat Ach
L  2  2    2    0   0
R  2  2    2    0   0
Plantar response was flexor in the right, left toe was equivocal

-Coordination: No intention tremor. No dysmetria on FNF or HKS 
bilaterally.  Finger tapping is slow and uncoordinated his left 
upper extremity, left upper extremity is clumsy with rapid 
alternating movements, no rebound, no truncal ataxia

-Gait: Patient is able to get up from the bed and stand no 
initially is unsteady and started to fall backwards but was able 
to write himself, gait is mildly wide-based and unsteady though 
he is able to stand together and eyes open without much 
difficulty, he is not able to stand with his eyes closed and has 
significant sway

ON DISCHARGE:
Mental status: Awake, alert, attentive to interview and exam. 
Language is fluent with no paraphasias. No evidence of 
hemineglect.
Cranial nerves: Pupils equal, round, reactive to light. Eye 
movements full without nystagmus. Visual fields full to 
confrontation. Facial sensation intact Face symmetric at rest 
and with activation. Hearing intact to finger rub. No 
dysarthria. Tongue/palate midline.
Motor: Normal bulk and tone throughout. Strengths is full in all 
muscle groups of the upper and lower extremities. No 
clumsiness/bradykinesia. 
Sensory: Joint position sense is intact to small amplitude 
movements at the large toes bilaterally. Negative Romberg.
Coordination: No dysmetria with finger nose finger or heel to 
shin bilaterally. No truncal ataxia.
Gait: Narrow-based, steady.