Admission physical exam:
Vitals: 97.6 133/73 60 18 99 RA
General: Well-nourished male in no acute distress.  Mildly
uncomfortable. Right eye shut though able to open on command.
Neuro: Visual field notable for right homonymous hemianopsia. 
Cranial nerves II through XII are grossly intact.  Full strength
of the upper and lower extremities bilaterally.  Full sensation
in the upper and lower extremities bilaterally.  Reflexes 1+
patellar, 1+ brachial, 1+ brachioradialis. Finger-to-nose intact
on left, impaired on right due to visual field deficit. Babinski
downgoing. Gait mildly unsteady.
HEENT: Right eyelid persistently shut though patient is able to
open on command, albeit painful.  2 cm, sutured wound over the
right forehead with surrounding dried blood and hematoma.  Moist
mucous membranes.
Cardiac: Regular rate and rhythm.  No appreciable murmurs.
Pulmonary: Lung fields clear to auscultation bilaterally. 
Breathing comfortably on room air.
Abdomen: Well-healed midline laparotomy scar.  Otherwise soft,
nontender, nondistended.
Back: Right paraspinal tenderness over the border of the 
cervical
and thoracic spine.  Otherwise normal in appearance.
Extremities: Positive right-sided Spurling test.  Fourth and
fifth digit of right hand partially contracted.  Otherwise warm,
well-perfused, nonedematous.

Discharge physical exam:
VS 97.5 PO 112 / 63 70 18 98 Ra 
General: Well-nourished male in no acute distress.  Bandage
covering R eye.
Neuro: Visual field loss in R eye unchanged, sees light but 
unable to count
fingers, vision intact in L eye. PERRL bilaterally. other CN
grossly normal. ___ strength in upper and lower extremities
bilaterally.
HEENT: 2 cm, sutured wound over the right forehead with
surrounding dried blood and hematoma.  Moist mucous membranes.
Cardiac: Regular rate and rhythm. No appreciable murmurs 
Pulmonary: Lung fields clear to auscultation bilaterally. 
Breathing comfortably on room air.
Abdomen: Well-healed midline laparotomy scar.  Otherwise soft,
nontender, nondistended.
Back: Some paraspinal tenderness on right upper thoracic spine
around T1-T2.
Extremities: Fourth and fifth digit of right hand partially
contracted.  Otherwise warm, well-perfused, nonedematous.