ADMISSION PHYSICAL EXAM:
Orthostatics:
Supine: HR 58, BP 135/57 
Sitting: HR 63, BP 141/68 
Standing: HR 63, BP 134/68 

General: Lying in bed, appears uncomfortable but NAD
HEENT: NC/AT, no scleral icterus noted, MMM, no lesions noted in
oropharynx
Neck: Supple, no nuchal rigidity
Pulmonary: Normal work of breathing
Cardiac: RRR, warm, well-perfused
Abdomen: soft, non-distended
Extremities: No ___ edema.
Skin: no rashes or lesions noted.
 
Neurologic:
-Mental Status: Alert, oriented to self, place (hospital) and
month/year (___) but not day. Able to relate history
without difficulty. Language is fluent with intact repetition 
and
comprehension. There were no paraphasic errors. Pt was able to
name both high and low frequency objects.  Speech was not
dysarthric. Able to follow both midline and appendicular
commands. There was no evidence of apraxia or neglect.
-Cranial Nerves:
II, III, IV, VI:  PERRL 3 to 2mm and brisk. EOMI without
nystagmus. Normal saccades. VFF to confrontation. Subtle 
vertical
skew (right sits slightly higher than left). No catch up 
saccade.

V: Facial sensation intact to light touch.
VII: No facial droop, facial musculature symmetric.
VIII: Hearing intact to conversation bilaterally.
IX, X: Palate elevates symmetrically.
XI: ___ strength in trapezii bilaterally.
XII: Tongue protrudes in midline with good excursions.  

-Motor: Normal bulk, tone throughout. No pronator drift
bilaterally.
No adventitious movements noted. Strength ___ throughout. 

-Sensory: No deficits to light touch throughout.  

-DTRs: 2+ in biceps, patellae and ankles 

-Coordination: Very slight intention tremor. No dysmetria on FNF
bilaterally.

DISCHARGE PHYSICAL EXAM:
General: eating lunch, comfortable appearing
HEENT: no scleral icterus, pain to palpation on the bilateral 
trapezius and occiput
MS: awake, alert, oriented, conversational in ___ with no 
dysarthria. 
CN: pupils 2.5-->2, EOMI with no nystagmus, no skew deviation, 
face symmetric, tongue midline, no uvula deviation

Motor: no pronator drift
Full strength upper and lower extremities bilaterally

Coordination: no dysmetria on finger to nose bilaterally

Gait: able to stand independently, walks without assistance with 
normal based gait and steady steps