Name:  ___                Unit No:   ___
 
Admission Date:  ___              Discharge Date:   ___
 
Date of Birth:  ___             Sex:   F
 
Service: PSYCHIATRY
 
Allergies: 
No Known Allergies / Adverse Drug Reactions
 
Attending: ___.
 
Chief Complaint:
"I wasn't trying to kill myself"
 
Major Surgical or Invasive Procedure:
None
 
History of Present Illness:
Per Dr. ___ ___ ___ Initial Psychiatry Consult note:
"Patient is a ___ with recently diagnosed depression and 
extensive trauma history who self-presented after calling 911, 
concerned by the depth of a self-inflicted laceration to the L 
wrist.

The patient states that she has been feeling depressed since the 
___ time, more acutely so since ___.  She 
approached ___ at that time and was encouraged to 
initiate an antidepressant but was resistant to the idea 
concerned that antidepressants might be habit-forming, cause 
weight gain; she was started on Zoloft now titrated to 50 mg 
daily just last week but does not believe her mood or her SI has 
worsened acutely as a result, rather denying any effects 
whatsoever.  While she has benefited from weekly therapy she has 
continued to notice a steady decline in her mood, motivation, 
and concentration with worsening anhedonia, sleep, and appetite. 
 She endorses a history of anorexia in her teenage years but 
states that she still aims to consume an average of 800 calories 
a day- now she finds it difficult to force herself to eat; she 
continues to go to the gym before bed despite her fluctuating 
intake as vigorous exercise is the only way to "knock [her]self 
out".  She endorses worsening passive suicidal thoughts without 
plan, and not previously acted on her impulses concerned for the 
welfare of those who would inevitably discover her body, but 
claims that this has changed.  

She states that she had a disagreement with a friend with whom 
she has recently been on bad terms, encouraged to speak with 
this friend by her therapist as a means of "setting boundaries". 
 The patient became upset when her friend told her that he felt 
she cared too much about him, growing tearful, identifying this 
as "something [she's] heard before", and ultimately worrying 
that her "loving people is a bad thing".  The patient states 
that, feeling "bad", she returned home, and had considered 
utilizing the frozen orange her psychiatrist had encouraged her 
to access when stressed but felt an overwhelming urge to cut.  
Though she had previously cut during adolescence to "punish" 
herself she had not cut in ___ years, and had disposed of all her 
razors; she dismantled her safety razor and scratched her left 
wrist, then rotated the blade and without meaning to cut more 
deeply, horrified at what she'd done.  She adamantly denies that 
she was trying to kill herself and endorses genuine surprise at 
having cut so deep, immediately applying pressure and calling 
campus mental health because she "didn't know what to do".  She 
has a number of small, well-healed and fading scars on both her 
left and right wrists inflicted where she says she can "see 
them", finding some comfort in carrying her scars in light of 
her past traumas.  

The patient briefly acknowledges that she experienced sexual 
abuse at the hands of numerous extended family members beginning 
in childhood, and states that while she knows it was "wrong" of 
them, blames herself for having put both she and they in such a 
situation; she is readily engaged and forthcoming with 
information, becoming more and more tearful as the interview 
progressed.  She cites a "complicated" history with both her 
father and her mother, though she considers her mother a primary 
support, and denies that her mother is aware of her suicidality. 
 She adds that she has felt unsupported by her parents in the 
treatment of her mental health as "mental health isn't something 
Latinos talk about".

The patient denies symptoms of mania or psychosis but did 
endorse a recent history of paranoia, fear that there was 
someone behind her (even in her dorm room), startling at loud 
noises, afraid to sleep in darkness.  She states that she has 
recently been able to turn out the light when retiring to bed 
but states that she must raise the blinds slightly so as not to 
be subjected to "total darkness".  She complains of frequent 
nightmares in which she feels she is running from danger, but 
denies flashbacks.  She endorses episodic feelings of 
depersonalization in which she says she feels "like I'm living 
someone else's life", like tonight.  The patient eventually 
concedes that there is a small part of her that wants to live- 
the part that initiated therapy and asked for help this evening- 
and is ultimately amenable to hospitalization."

Per EMS report:
___ yo female found with a self inflicted left wrist laceration 
secondary to cutting it with a razor blade. Pt states she is a 
"self cutter" pt uses cuting to relax. Pt is 911 caller. Pt 
states she "cut too deep". Pt denies any si,hi. No bleeding 
noted. 5x9 applied with coban. 

In the ___:
Patient was noted to have 3.5cm simple laceration without 
exposed tendon. Normal neuro and motor exam, cap refill, and 
radial pulse. Repaired with ___ Prolene. Received hydroxyzine 
50mg for anxiety and acetaminophen 650mg x2 for pain.

Per admission interview:
Patient reports that she cut herself yesterday for relief of 
negative emotions, but accidentally cut too deeply. She says she 
has not cut herself for ___ years. After cutting yesterday, she 
became frightened after seeing veins and tendon and called ___ 
___, who called an ambulance. She reports that 
this occurred in the setting of feeling overwhelmed in order to 
obtain relief. She says she recognizes cutting is a poor way of 
coping, and expresses regret that she did not utilize a 
different strategy such as exercise, which has previously helped 
her when in a similar state of mind. She denies that her 
intention was to end her life. She denies current passive or 
active suicidal ideation, but says she does have intermittent 
passive death wishes without desire, intention, or plan to end 
her life.

She endorses worsening depressive symptoms and anxiety since 
last semester, which was her first semester at ___. She says she 
is not sure why this happened, but thinks home sickness may have 
played a role. Her depressive symptoms included low mood, low 
self-esteem, low motivation, procrastination, difficulty 
concentrating, anhedonia, and poor appetite. Her other symptoms 
included anxiety, hypervigilance, and nightmares related to past 
trauma. Later in interview she identifies a few other challenges 
including difficulty expressing herself emotionally in a way 
that others would understand her accurately. She also frequent 
feelings of depersonalization ("I feel like I don't recognize 
myself, like I am watching a movie of myself... sometimes I cut 
myself to feel my own body.").

In terms of her functional status, she continues to care for 
herself, attend school, and recently started ___, but 
says that her grades and eating have suffered. She reached out 
to ___ and started therapy and more recently 
started Zoloft 2 weeks ago. She initially states she has not 
noticed an effect, positive or negative, from the Zoloft, but 
later says she thinks her anxiety has lessened since starting.

Regarding her eating, she says she has a history of anorexia 
nervosa as a teenager. She still restricts and exercises on 
occasion; unclear if she purges. Recently lowered her calorie 
goal from 1200 to 800 calories daily.

Regarding her abuse, did not go into detail but reports history 
of sexual abuse as a child. She reports feeling safe in her 
dorm. Per Dr. ___ note ___, "denies current boyfriend 
is abusive in anyway. He has never hit her. They are not 
sexually active and he does not pressure her. She feels safe 
with him."

 
Past Medical History:
Asthma- mild intermittent, uses rescue inhaler PRN
Denies history of head trauma, seizure.
 
Social History:
___
Family History:
No formal history of psychiatric diagnoses. Patient says her 
family "does not like to talk about mental illness" and has not 
sought treatment, but she believes both parents have struggled 
with depression. Her father also struggles with alcohol. No 
family history of suicide.
 
Physical Exam:
ADMISSION EXAM

General:
-HEENT: Normocephalic, atraumatic.
-Cardiovascular: Regular rate and rhythm, normal S1/S2.
-Pulmonary: No increased work of breathing.  Lungs clear to 
auscultation bilaterally.
-Abdominal: Non-tender, non-distended.
-Extremities: 3-5cm linear laceration over volar left forearm, 
normal distal pulse and perfusion, normal wrist 
flexion/extension and digit movements
-Skin: see extremities. no rashes or other skin changes noted.

Neurological:
-Cranial Nerves:
---I: not tested
---II: PERRL
---III, IV, VI: EOMI without nystagmus
---V: Facial sensation intact to light touch in all 
distributions
---VII: No facial droop, facial musculature symmetric
---VIII: Hearing grossly intact
---IX, X: Palate elevates symmetrically
---XI: ___ strength in trapezii and SCM bilaterally
---XII: Tongue protrudes midline
-Motor: Normal bulk and tone bilaterally. Moves all 4 
extremities antigravity.
-Sensory: Not tested.
-DTRs: Not tested.
Coordination: Normal finger-nose-finger.
-Gait: Normal.

Cognition: 
-Wakefulness/alertness: awake, alert
-Attention: MOYb with 0 errors
-Orientation: Oriented to person, time, place, situation
-Executive function: not tested
-Memory: ___ registration, ___ recall after 5 ___ term 
grossly intact
-Fund of knowledge: Consistent with education
-Calculations: 7 quarters = "$1.75"
-Abstraction: Interprets book/cover proverb appropriately
-Visuospatial: Not assessed
-Language: fluent ___

Mental Status:
-Appearance: female, appears stated age, adequate grooming and 
hygiene, wearing hospital gown, no apparent distress
-Behavior: sitting in chair, mildly decreased eye contact, no 
psychomotor agitation or retardation
-Attitude: cooperative, engaged, friendly
-Mood: "okay"
-Affect: mildly depressed, full range, appropriate to situation
-Speech: normal rate, volume, tone
-Thought process: Linear, coherent, goal-oriented, no loose 
associations
-Thought Content:
---Safety: denies current SI, reports recent passive SI/death 
wish, denies intention or plan, denies HI
---Delusions: No evidence of paranoia, etc. 
---Obsessions/Compulsions: No evidence based on current 
encounter
---Hallucinations: Denies AVH, not appearing to be attending to 
internal stimuli
-Insight: fair
-Judgment: poor

 
Pertinent Results:
CBC with differential (___):
WBC-8.1
RBC-4.13
Hgb-11.9
Hct-36.6
MCV-89
MCH-28.8
MCHC-32.5
RDW-12.7
RDWSD-40.9
Plt ___
Neuts-52.3
___
Monos-6.9
Eos-2.2
Baso-0.7
Im ___
AbsNeut-4.25
AbsLymp-3.07
AbsMono-0.56
AbsEos-0.18
AbsBaso-0.06

Basic metabolic panel (___)
Glucose-93
UreaN-7
Creat-0.8
Na-139
K-3.9
Cl-101
HCO3-25
AnGap-13

Lipid panel (___)
Triglyc-71
HDL-55
CHOL/HD-2.9
LDLcalc-91

HbA1c (___)
%HbA1c-4.8
eAG-91

TSH (___)
TSH-0.68

Tox screen (___)
Serum ASA-NEG
Serum Ethanol-NEG
Serum Acetmnp-NEG
Serum Tricycl-NEG
Urine bnzodzp-NEG
Urine barbitr-NEG
Urine opiates-NEG
Urine cocaine-NEG
Urine amphetm-NEG
Urine oxycodn-NEG
Urine mthdone-NEG

Urinalysis with microscopy (___)
Blood-NEG
Nitrite-NEG
Protein-NEG
Glucose-NEG
Ketone-NEG
Bilirub-NEG
Urobiln-NEG
pH-6.0
Leuks-MOD*
RBC-1
WBC-9*
Bacteri-FEW*
Yeast-NONE
Epi-1

UCG (___)
UCG-NEG

 
Brief Hospital Course:
1. LEGAL & SAFETY:  
On admission, the patient signed a conditional voluntary 
agreement (Section 10 & 11) and remained on that level 
throughout their admission.  She was also placed on 15 minute 
checks status on admission and remained on that level of 
observation throughout while being unit restricted.

2. PSYCHIATRIC:
Patient presented to the ___ after calling ___ behavioral ___ 
due to impulsive self-inflicted cut on her wrist in the setting 
on an argument with her boyfriend. She was admitted to ___ due 
to concern for risk of harm to self. On admission interview, she 
reported several months of depressive symptoms (low mood, 
motivation, concentration, appetite, passive SI), PTSD symptoms 
(intrusive thoughts, nightmares, depersonalization, 
hyperarousal, trauma history), and recent relapse of self 
injurious behavior (cutting) in the setting of interpersonal 
difficulties and living away from home. She identified core 
challenges as interpersonal relationships, self-image, 
reactivity, impulsivity, chronic emptiness, and 
depersonalization.

Throughout her short hospitalization, she actively engaged in 
individual therapy, group therapy, and milieu social 
interactions. There were no behavioral issues or safety 
concerns, although she remained on restricted sharps status due 
to recent cutting behavior. She demonstrated good self-care, 
euthymic and full-range of affect, and denied active suicidal 
ideation. We continued her antidepressant Zoloft at her current 
dose 50mg, because she reported benefit from it for anxiety, she 
had only just started the medication 2 weeks prior, and she was 
tolerating it well. There was no evidence that it had 
precipitated her self injurious behavior. We started prazosin 
1mg QHS for PTSD-related nightmares. She tolerated the prazosin 
well and it was increased to 2mg QHS with no complaints of 
orthostasis or other side effects. She was not sure if it was 
helpful or not, however, since she did not have significant 
nightmares while admitted, so we instructed her to continue 
taking it only if she finds it beneficial.

By discharge, patient said she felt ready to return to her 
regular routines. She reported that her mood symptoms had 
significant improved and that she has learned new coping skills 
for handling intense emotions. She denied thoughts of hurting 
herself and denied suicidal ideation, intention, or plan. She 
stated her plan to continue mental health treatment through an 
intensive outpatient program in addition to taking her 
psychiatric medication and attending followup appointments with 
her established outpatient psychiatrist and therapist. 

3. SUBSTANCE USE DISORDERS: not applicable

4. MEDICAL
1) Wrist laceration 
Patient was found to have 3.5cm self-inflicted superficial 
laceration to left wrist. The wound was irrigated and repaired 
with ___ prolene sutures. Her wound appeared to be healing 
well. She should have the sutures removed around ___.

2) Pyuria
Patient was also noted to have incidental pyuria without other 
signs, symptoms, or labwork concerning for urinary tract 
infection. She was agreeable to pursuing routine STI screening 
at her next medical appointment.

5. PSYCHOSOCIAL
1) GROUPS/MILIEU:  
The patient was encouraged to participate in the various groups 
and milieu therapy opportunities offered by the unit. The 
patient attended several groups and was an active participant. 
She was frequently visible in milieu socializing with peers.

2) COLLATERAL CONTACTS & FAMILY INVOLVEMENT
Coordinated with ___ 
for collateral information and aftercare planning. Offered to 
involve family, but patient declined.

3) INTERVENTIONS
- Medications: continued home Zoloft 50mg QAM, started Prazosin 
2mg QHS
- Psychotherapeutic Interventions: Individual, group, and milieu 
therapy.
- Coordination of aftercare: arranged followup with outpatient 
psychiatrist, therapist, and primary care; arranged intake with 
evening intensive outpatient program
- Behavioral Interventions (e.g. encouraged DBT skills, ect): 
encouraged mindfulness, DBT skills, and healthy relationships
- Guardianships: n/a

INFORMED CONSENT: Prazosin, Zoloft
The team discussed the indications for, intended benefits of, 
and possible side effects and risks of starting this medication, 
and risks and benefits of possible alternatives, including not 
taking the medication, with this patient. We discussed the 
patient's right to decide whether to take this medication as 
well as the importance of the patient's actively participating 
in the treatment and discussing any questions about medications 
with the treatment team. The patient appeared able to understand 
and consented to begin/continue the medication.

RISK ASSESSMENT & PROGNOSIS
On presentation, the patient was evaluated and felt to be at an 
increased risk of harm to herself based on impulsivity, self 
injury, and passive suicidal ideation. Their static factors 
noted at that time include history of abuse, age, and presence 
of concurrent personality disorder traits. The modifiable risk 
factors included suicidal ideation, active self-injurious 
behaviors, limited ability to self soothe, and decreased 
self-esteem, which were addressed through individual and group 
therapy and medication management.  Finally, the patient is 
being discharged with many protective factors, including female 
gender, help-seeking behavior, future-oriented viewpoint, 
positive therapeutic relationship with outpatient providers, 
medication compliance, social support, no prior suicide 
attempts, no chronic substance use, no access to lethal weapons, 
and reality-testing ability. Patient demonstrated preserved 
capacity to engage in meaningful conversation about safety 
planning and what she would do in the event that her symptoms of 
depression worsen or she has thoughts of self-harm or suicide 
(e.g. patient would contact her therapist, on-call clinician, 
call ___, or go to the emergency room). Overall, based on the 
totality of our assessment at this time, the patient is not at 
an acutely elevated risk of self-harm nor danger to others. 

MODIFIABLE RISK FACTORS
- suicidal ideation without intent/plan
- impulsivity
- limited ability to self soothe

PROTECTIVE FACTORS
- female gender
- help-seeking behavior
- future-oriented viewpoint
- positive therapeutic relationship with outpatient providers
- medication compliance
- social support
- no prior suicide attempts
- no substance use
- no access to lethal weapons
- reality-testing ability

 
Medications on Admission:
The Preadmission Medication list is accurate and complete.
1. Sertraline 50 mg PO DAILY 
2. Albuterol Inhaler ___ PUFF IH Q4H:PRN wheezing, shortness of 
breath 

 
Discharge Medications:
1.  Prazosin 2 mg PO QHS 
RX *prazosin 2 mg 1 capsule(s) by mouth at bedtime Disp #*30 
Capsule Refills:*0 
2.  Albuterol Inhaler ___ PUFF IH Q4H:PRN wheezing, shortness of 
breath  
3.  Sertraline 50 mg PO DAILY 
RX *sertraline 50 mg 1 tablet(s) by mouth daily Disp #*30 Tablet 
Refills:*0 

 
Discharge Disposition:
Home
 
Discharge Diagnosis:
Major depressive disorder
Posttraumatic stress disorder
Borderline personality traits

 
Discharge Condition:
Mental Status:
-Appearance: female, appears stated age, adequate grooming and
hygiene, no apparent distress
-Behavior/Attitude: calm, cooperative, engaged, good eye 
contact, no psychomotor agitation or retardation
-Mood/Affect: 'good', euthymic, full range, appropriate
-Speech: normal rate, volume, tone
-Thought process: linear, coherent, goal-oriented, no loose
associations
-Thought Content:
---Safety: denies SI/HI
---Delusions: No evidence of paranoia, etc. 
---Obsessions/Compulsions: No evidence based on current 
encounter
---Hallucinations: Denies AVH, not attending to internal stimuli
-Insight: fair
-Judgment: fair

Level of Consciousness: Alert and interactive.
Activity Status: Ambulatory - Independent.

 
Discharge Instructions:
-Your wrist laceration was repaired with non-absorbable 
stitches. It appears to be healing well. Keep the area clean and 
dry. If you develop swelling, warmth, bloody or purulent 
drainage, you should seek care right away. You should have the 
stitches removed in approximately ___ days.
-Your urine showed white blood cells, a common and nonspecific 
finding. You did not have signs or symptoms of urinary tract 
infection. You should consider routine STI screening for 
gonorrhea and chlamydia at your next medical appointment.
-We started a new medication for PTSD related nightmares called 
prazosin. You should continue taking the medication only if you 
find it helpful. You may experience lightheadedness when taking 
this medication, and there is an increased risk of fainting 
after standing up too quickly.
-Please follow up with all outpatient appointments as listed - 
take this discharge paperwork to your appointments.
-Unless a limited duration is specified in the prescription, 
please continue all medications as directed until your 
prescriber tells you to stop or change.
-Please avoid abusing alcohol and any drugs--whether 
prescription drugs or illegal drugs--as this can further worsen 
your medical and psychiatric illnesses.
-Please contact your outpatient psychiatrist or other providers 
if you have any concerns.
-Please call ___ or go to your nearest emergency room if you 
feel unsafe in any way and are unable to immediately reach your 
health care providers.

It was a pleasure to have worked with you, and we wish you the 
best of health.
 
Followup Instructions:
___