Name:  ___                    Unit No:   ___
 
Admission Date:  ___              Discharge Date:   ___
 
Date of Birth:  ___             Sex:   F
 
Service: SURGERY
 
Allergies: 
Percocet / oxycodone
 
Attending: ___.
 
Chief Complaint:
Class III morbid obesity and BMI of 51.7
 
Major Surgical or Invasive Procedure:
___: laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy

 
History of Present Illness:
___ is a ___ female with class III morbid 
obesity and BMI of 51.7 with co-morbidities of obstructive sleep 
apnea and does not use CPAP, gastroesophageal reflux and 
depression. She has been on multiple weight loss diets and has 
regained the weight. 
 
Past Medical History:
OBESITY                                                         
DEPRESSION                                                      
BINGE EATING 
SHORTNESS OF BREATH 
                                                     HEARTBURN   
                                                    
SLEEP APNEA                                                     
does not use CPAP                                               
GASTROESOPHAGEAL REFLUX                                         
ALCOHOL ABUSE                                                   
in remission                                                    
PREMATURE VENTRICULAR CONTRACTIONS                              
HIATAL HERNIA                                                   
small 
 
Social History:
___
Family History:
Her family history is noted father deceased with history of
alcoholism; stepfather with history of abuse; mother living age 
___ with bipolar disorder; one sister living with no health 
issues.

 
Physical Exam:
Vitals:  
Temp: 98.9 PO BP: 138/82 R Sitting HR: 89 RR: 20 O2 sat: 95% O2 
RA

Gen: A&Ox3, comfortable-appearing female, in NAD
HEENT: No scleral icterus, no palpable LAD
Pulm: Breathing comfortably on room air, clear to auscultation
bilaterally
CV: NRRR, no m/r/g
Abd: soft, obese, appropriate incisional tenderness, no
rebound/guarding, no palpable masses
Ext: WWP bilaterally, no c/c/e, no ulcerations
Neuro: moves all limbs spontaneously, no focal deficits

 
Pertinent Results:
___ 02:26PM BLOOD Hct-36.9
___ 04:48AM BLOOD Hct-36.2
 
Brief Hospital Course:
The patient presented to pre-op on ___. Patient was 
evaluated by anesthesia.  
The patient was taken to the operating room for a laparoscopic 
sleeve gastrectomy for obesity. There were no adverse events in 
the operating room; please see the operative note for details. 
Pt was extubated, taken to the PACU until stable, then 
transferred to the ward for observation.  

Neuro: The patient was alert and oriented throughout 
hospitalization; pain was initially managed with a PCA. Pain was 
very well controlled. The patient was then transitioned to 
crushed oral pain medication once tolerating a stage 3 diet.  

CV: The patient remained stable from a cardiovascular 
standpoint; vital signs were routinely monitored.  

Pulmonary: The patient remained stable from a pulmonary 
standpoint; vital signs were routinely monitored. Good pulmonary 
toilet, early ambulation and incentive spirometry were 
encouraged throughout hospitalization.  

GI/GU/FEN: The patient was initially kept NPO. Afterwards, the 
patient was started on a stage 1 bariatric diet, which the 
patient tolerated well. Subsequently, the patient was advanced 
to stage 2, and then stage 3 diet which the patient was 
tolerating on day of discharge.  

ID: The patient's fever curves were closely watched for signs of 
infection, of which there were none.  

HEME: The patient's blood counts were closely watched for signs 
of bleeding, of which there were none.  

Prophylaxis: The patient received subcutaneous heparin and ___ 
dyne boots were used during this stay and was encouraged to get 
up and ambulate as early as possible.  

At the time of discharge, the patient was doing well, afebrile 
and hemodynamically stable. The patient was tolerating a 
bariatric stage 3 diet, ambulating, voiding without assistance, 
and pain was well controlled. The patient received discharge 
teaching and follow-up instructions with understanding 
verbalized and agreement with the discharge plan.  

 
Medications on Admission:
The Preadmission Medication list is accurate and complete.
1. BuPROPion 100 mg PO TID 
2. Loratadine 10 mg PO DAILY 
3. Sertraline 50 mg PO BID 

 
Discharge Medications:
1.  Acetaminophen (Liquid) 650 mg PO Q6H:PRN Pain - Mild 
Do not exceed 4 grams daily.  
2.  Famotidine 20 mg PO DAILY 
Crush all medications. 
RX *famotidine 20 mg 1 tablet(s) by mouth twice daily Disp #*60 
Tablet Refills:*0 
3.  TraMADol 50-100 mg PO Q6H:PRN Pain - Severe 
Crush all medications. 
RX *tramadol 50 mg ___ tablet(s) by mouth every 6 hours Disp 
#*10 Tablet Refills:*0 
4.  BuPROPion 100 mg PO TID 
Crush all medications.  
5.  Loratadine 10 mg PO DAILY 
Crush all medications.  
6.  Sertraline 50 mg PO BID 
Crush all medications.  

 
Discharge Disposition:
Home
 
Discharge Diagnosis:
morbid obesity

 
Discharge Condition:
Mental Status: Clear and coherent.
Level of Consciousness: Alert and interactive.
Activity Status: Ambulatory - Independent.

 
Discharge Instructions:
Dear Ms. ___,

You were admitted after undergoing a laparoscopic sleeve 
gastrectomy as part of your weight loss plan. You are tolerating 
your new diet and are now ready to be discharged home. Please 
see below for discharge instructions.

Please call your surgeon or return to the Emergency Department 
if you develop a fever greater than ___ F, shaking chills, chest 
pain, difficulty breathing, pain with breathing, cough, a rapid 
heartbeat, dizziness, severe abdominal pain, pain unrelieved by 
your pain medication, a change in the nature or severity of your 
pain, severe nausea, vomiting, abdominal bloating, severe 
diarrhea, inability to eat or drink, foul smelling or colorful 
drainage from your incisions, redness, swelling from your 
incisions, or any other symptoms which are concerning to you.

Diet: Stay on Stage III diet until your follow up appointment; 
please refer to your work book for detailed instructions. Do not 
self- advance your diet and avoid drinking with a straw or 
chewing gum. To avoid dehydration, remember to sip small amounts 
of fluid frequently throughout the day to reach a goal of 
approximately ___ mL per day. Please note the following signs 
of dehydration: dry mouth, rapid heartbeat, feeling dizzy or 
faint, dark colored urine, infrequent urination. 

Medication Instructions:
Please refer to the medication list provided with your discharge 
paperwork for detailed instruction regarding your home and newly 
prescribed medications. 
Some of the new medications you will be taking include:
1. Pain medication: You will receive a prescription for liquid 
oxycodone, an opioid pain medication. This medication will make 
you drowsy and impair your ability to drive a motor vehicle or 
operate machinery safely. You MUST refrain from such activities 
while taking these medications. You may also take acetaminophen 
(Tylenol) for pain management; do not exceed 4000 mg per 24 hour 
period.
2. Constipation: This is a common side effect of opioid pain 
medication. If you experience constipation, please reduce or 
eliminate opioid pain medication. You may trial 2 ounces of 
light prune juice and/or a stool softener (i.e. crushed docusate 
sodium tablets), twice daily until you resume a normal bowel 
pattern. Please stop taking this medication if you develop loose 
stools. Please do not begin taking laxatives including until you 
have discussed it with your nurse or surgeon.
3. Antacids: You will be taking famotidine tablets, 20 mg twice 
daily, for one month. This medicine reduces stomach acid 
production. Please crush.
4. You must not use NSAIDS (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory 
drugs). Examples include, but are not limited to Aleve, 
Arthrotec, aspirin, Bufferin, diclofenac, Ecotrin, etodolac, 
ibuprofen, Indocin, indomethacin, Feldene, ketorolac, 
meclofenamate, meloxicam, Midol, Motrin, nambumetone, Naprosyn, 
Naproxen, Nuprin, oxaprozin, Piroxicam, Relafen, Toradol and 
Voltaren. These agents may cause bleeding and ulcers in your 
digestive system. If you are unclear whether a medication is 
considered an NSAID, please ask call your nurse or ask your 
pharmacist.
5. Vitamins/ minerals: You may resume a chewable multivitamin, 
however, please discuss when to resume additional vitamin and 
mineral supplements with your bariatric dietitian.

Activity:
You should continue walking frequently throughout the day right 
after surgery; you may climb stairs. 
You may resume moderate exercise at your discretion, but avoid 
performing abdominal exercises or lifting items greater than10 
to 15 pounds for six weeks.

Wound Care:
You may remove any remaining gauze from over your incisions. You 
will have thin paper strips (Steri-Strips) over your incision; 
please, remove any remaining Steri-Strip seven to 10 days after 
surgery. 
You may shower 48 hours following your surgery; avoid scrubbing 
your incisions and gently pat them dry. Avoid tub baths or 
swimming until cleared by your surgeon. 
If there is clear drainage from your incisions, cover with 
clean, dry gauze. 
Please call the doctor if you have increased pain, swelling, 
redness, cloudy, bloody or foul smelling drainage from the 
incision sites. 
Avoid direct sun exposure to the incision area for up to 24 
months.
Do not use any ointments on the incision unless you were told 
otherwise.

Thank you for allowing us to participate in your care and best 
wishes for a speedy recovery!

Sincerely,

Your ___ Surgery Team
 
Followup Instructions:
___