Name:  ___          Unit No:   ___
 
Admission Date:  ___              Discharge Date:   ___
 
Date of Birth:  ___             Sex:   F
 
Service: SURGERY
 
Allergies: 
No Known Allergies / Adverse Drug Reactions
 
Attending: ___.
 
Chief Complaint:
breast cancer
 
Major Surgical or Invasive Procedure:
R partial mastectomy, SLNBx

 
History of Present Illness:
___ with Right TNBC s/p neoadjuvant chemotherapy who has elected 
for partial mastectomy with SLNBx. 
 
Past Medical History:
1.  Benign positional vertigo.
2.  Diabetes.
3.  Hypercholesterolemia.
4.  Hypertension.
5.  Morbid obesity.
6.  Postmenopausal bleeding.
7.  Knee pain.
 
Social History:
Social History:  She works at ___ as a ___ 
___.
She lives with her son, but will be moving into her own 
apartment
in the near future.  Her husband is in a nursing home due to
Alzheimer's.  She walks three times a week for exercise.  She 
has
never smoked and does not drink alcohol.
 
Physical Exam:
General NAD
Resp non labored
CV RRR
Breast: R breast with dressings CDI. No hematoma
Extremities: WWP
 
Brief Hospital Course:
Patient underwent R partial mastectomy, SLNBx on ___. For full 
details please see operative note. In the PACU patient was 
having alternating episodes of severe pain and sleepiness 
secondary to pain meds. Given this she was admitted for 
observation. Her diet was advanced as tolerated to regular. She 
was voiding spontaneously. Her pain was controlled with PO meds 
and IV only for breakthrough. She ambulated independently. At 
the time of discharge her vitals were stable. She was discharged 
to home in stable condition. The discharge plan was discussed 
with the patient who expressed understanding and agreement. 
 
Medications on Admission:
  atorvastatin 20', gabapentin 100"', ibuprofen 600"', 
lisinopril 10', metformin XR 500'
 
Discharge Medications:
1.  Acetaminophen 1000 mg PO Q8H  
2.  Docusate Sodium 100 mg PO BID  
3.  Atorvastatin 20 mg PO QPM  
4.  Gabapentin 100 mg PO TID  
5.  Lisinopril 10 mg PO DAILY  
6.  MetFORMIN XR (Glucophage XR) 500 mg PO DAILY  
7.  Senna 17.2 mg PO HS  

 
Discharge Disposition:
Home
 
Discharge Diagnosis:
breast cancer

 
Discharge Condition:
Mental Status: Clear and coherent.
Level of Consciousness: Alert and interactive.
Activity Status: Ambulatory - Independent.

 
Discharge Instructions:
Personal Care:  
You may keep your incisions open to air or covered with a clean, 
sterile gauze that you change daily.
Clean around the drain site(s), where the tubing exits the skin, 
with soap and water.   
You may wear a surgical bra or soft, loose camisole for comfort. 
 
You may shower daily with assistance as needed. Be sure to 
secure your drains so they don't hang down loosely and pull out.

Activity:  
1. You may resume your regular diet.  
2. Walk several times a day.  
3. DO NOT lift anything heavier than 5 pounds or engage in 
strenuous activity for 6 weeks following surgery. 
Medications:  
1. Resume your regular medications unless instructed otherwise 
and take any new meds as ordered .  
2. You may take your prescribed pain medication for moderate to 
severe pain. You may switch to Tylenol or Extra Strength Tylenol 
for mild pain as directed on the packaging. Please note that 
Percocet and Vicodin have Tylenol as an active ingredient so do 
not take these meds with additional Tylenol.  
3. Take prescription pain medications for pain not relieved by 
Tylenol.  
4. Take Colace, 100 mg by mouth 2 times per day, while taking 
the prescription pain medication. You may use a different 
over-the-counter stool softener if you wish.  
5. Do not drive or operate heavy machinery while taking any 
narcotic pain medication. You may have constipation when taking 
narcotic pain medications (oxycodone, percocet, vicodin, 
hydrocodone, dilaudid, etc.); you should continue drinking 
fluids, you may take stool softeners, and should eat foods that 
are high in fiber.  

Call the office IMMEDIATELY if you have any of the following:  
1. Signs of infection: fever with chills, increased redness, 
swelling, warmth or tenderness at the surgical site, or unusual 
drainage from the incision(s).  
2. A large amount of bleeding from the incision(s) or drain(s).  

3. Fever greater than 101.5 oF  
4. Severe pain NOT relieved by your medication.  
  
Return to the ER if:  
* If you are vomiting and cannot keep in fluids or your 
medications.  
* If you have shaking chills, fever greater than 101.5 (F) 
degrees or 38 (C) degrees, increased redness, swelling or 
discharge from incision, chest pain, shortness of breath, or 
anything else that is troubling you.  
* Any serious change in your symptoms, or any new symptoms that 
concern you. 
 
Followup Instructions:
___