Name:  ___                  Unit No:   ___
 
Admission Date:  ___              Discharge Date:   ___
 
Date of Birth:  ___             Sex:   M
 
Service: PLASTIC
 
Allergies: 
No Known Allergies / Adverse Drug Reactions
 
Attending: ___.
 
Chief Complaint:
Right thumb injury
 
Major Surgical or Invasive Procedure:
1. Resurfacing right thumb with ___ flap
    harvested from the ulnar aspect of the long finger.
2. Full-thickness skin graft to right long finger.
3. Full-thickness skin graft, radial side, right thumb
    (hypothenar donor).
4. Split-thickness skin graft, lower portion of the thumb
    (lateral thigh donor).
5. Neurorrhaphy, ulnar digital nerve to left thumb.
6. Conduit wrap of left thumb.
7. Application of a short-arm splint, right upper
    extremity.

 
History of Present Illness:
___ yo RHD non-smoker previously healthy male presents after
right thumb printing press injury. Patient states injury 
occurred
around 11:30 am and denies significant bleeding or weakness.
Patient states he saw part of his thumb skin had been amputated
so he placed in a bag with ice and brought it in. Patient denies
any other injuries. XRays in ED show no obvious fracture
 
Past Medical History:
denies
 
Social History:
___
Family History:
NC
 
Physical Exam:
Gen: Well-appearing, comfortable
RUE: Volar aspect of thumb now covered with skin graft, skin 
graft pink and viable, no bleeding or discharge noted.

 
Brief Hospital Course:
The patient was admitted to the plastic surgery service on ___ 
and had a right thumb skin graft.  The patient tolerated the 
procedure well.
.
 Neuro: Post-operatively, the patient received Morphine PCA with 
good effect and adequate pain control. When tolerating oral 
intake, the patient was transitioned to oral pain medications.
 .
 CV: The patient was stable from a cardiovascular standpoint; 
vital signs were routinely monitored.
 .
 Pulmonary: The patient was stable from a pulmonary standpoint; 
vital signs were routinely monitored.
 .
 GI/GU: Post-operatively, the patient was given IV fluids until 
tolerating oral intake. His/Her diet was advanced when 
appropriate, which was tolerated well. She was also started on a 
bowel regimen to encourage bowel movement. Foley was removed 
post-operatively. Intake and output were closely monitored.
 .
 ID: Post-operatively, the patient was started on IV cefazolin, 
then switched to PO cefadroxil for discharge home. The patient's 
temperature was closely watched for signs of infection.
 .
 Prophylaxis: The patient received subcutaneous heparin during 
this stay, and was encouraged to get up and ambulate as early as 
possible.
 .
At the time of discharge, the patient was doing well, afebrile 
with stable vital signs, tolerating a regular diet, ambulating, 
voiding without assistance, and pain was well controlled.

 
Medications on Admission:
fluoxetine
 
Discharge Medications:
1. Docusate Sodium 100 mg PO BID 
2. Fluoxetine 40 mg PO DAILY 
3. OxycoDONE (Immediate Release)  5 mg PO Q4H:PRN pain 

 
Discharge Disposition:
Home
 
Discharge Diagnosis:
 Total avulsion, palmar surface, right thumb, in printing press 
accident

 
Discharge Condition:
Mental Status: Clear and coherent.
Level of Consciousness: Alert and interactive.
Activity Status: Ambulatory - Independent.

 
Discharge Instructions:
-You should continue taking the antibiotics as prescribed.
 -Elevate your right arm as much as possible and maintain your 
hand in the splint that was made for you.  For 48 hours after 
discharge, you should maintain your splint at all times except 
when you are soaking.  After 48 hours, you may keep your hand 
out of the splint during the day and wear just at night.
 - you may shower and let warm, soapy water run over your hand 
wound.  Dry thoroughly and apply dry dressing to wound.
 - no swimming until wound has closed.
 - wear a glove when engaging in activities that could 
contaminate your wound (such as diaper changes).
 - If your hand wound begins to worsen after discharge home with 
an acute increase in swelling or pain, please call Dr. ___ 
report this (___).
 .
 Medications:
 * Resume your regular medications unless instructed otherwise.
 * You may take your prescribed pain medication for moderate to 
severe pain. You may switch to Tylenol or Extra Strength Tylenol 
for mild pain as directed on the packaging.
 * Take Colace, 100 mg by mouth 2 times per day, while taking 
the prescription pain medication to prevent constipation. You 
may use a different over-the-counter stool softener if you wish.
 * Do not drive or operate heavy machinery while taking any 
narcotic pain medication. You may have constipation when taking 
narcotic pain medications (oxycodone, percocet, vicodin, 
hydrocodone, dilaudid, etc.); you should continue drinking 
fluids, you may take stool softeners, and should eat foods that 
are high in fiber.
 .
 Return to the ER if:
 * If you are vomiting and cannot keep in fluids or your 
medications.
 * If you have shaking chills, fever greater than 101.5 (F)
 degrees or 38 (C) degrees, increased redness, swelling or
 discharge from wound, chest pain, shortness of breath, or 
anything else that is troubling you.

 
Followup Instructions:
___