Name:  ___                   Unit No:   ___
 
Admission Date:  ___              Discharge Date:   ___
 
Date of Birth:  ___             Sex:   F
 
Service: PLASTIC
 
Allergies: 
Pineapple / crab / lactose / Inderal LA
 
Attending: ___.
 
Chief Complaint:
Chronic bilateral breast infections
 
Major Surgical or Invasive Procedure:
Bilateral skin-sparing mastectomy with tissue expander placement

 
History of Present Illness:
___ female who has had chronic breast infections for 
multiple years now. She has undergone multiple surgical incision 
and drainage and central duct excisions as well as bedside I and 
D's.  She has been on chronic antibiotics over the last ___ years. 
 Today she will undergo bilateral mastectomies and placement of 
tissue expanders.

 
Past Medical History:
migraines, anxiety, asthma, PTSD, ADHD, Depression, history of 
eating disorder
 
Social History:
+ smoker. 2 alcohol drinks per week. Marijuana use.
 
Physical Exam:
Pre-procedure physical exam as documented in anesthesia record 
___:
Pulse: 80/min
Resp: 14/min
BP: 122/81
O2sat: 99%
Temp: 98.5 F
.
General: Pleasant, NAD
Mental/psych: A&Ox3
Airway: detailed in anesthesia record
Dental: good
Head/neck: free range of motion
Heart: RRR, nl S1S2
Lungs: clear to auscultation
 
Brief Hospital Course:
The patient was admitted to the plastic surgery service on 
___ and had a bilateral mastectomy with placement of tissue 
expanders.  The patient tolerated the procedure well. 
 .
 Neuro: Post-operatively, the patient received IV pain 
medication with good effect and adequate pain control. When 
tolerating oral intake, the patient was transitioned to oral 
pain medications. Patient complained of a migraine on POD#1 and 
was given her home dosing of sumatriptan succinate with relief 
noted. 
 .
 CV: The patient was stable from a cardiovascular standpoint; 
vital signs were routinely monitored.
 .
 Pulmonary: The patient was stable from a pulmonary standpoint; 
vital signs were routinely monitored.
 .
 GI/GU: Post-operatively, the patient was given IV fluids until 
tolerating oral intake.  Her diet was advanced when appropriate, 
which was tolerated well. She was also started on a bowel 
regimen to encourage bowel movement. Intake and output were 
closely monitored. 
 .
 ID: Post-operatively, the patient was started on IV cefazolin, 
then switched to PO cefadroxil for discharge home. The patient's 
temperature was closely watched for signs of infection. 
 .
 Prophylaxis: The patient was encouraged to get up and ambulate 
as early as possible. 
 .
 At the time of discharge on POD#1, the patient was doing well, 
afebrile with stable vital signs, tolerating a regular diet, 
ambulating, voiding without assistance, and pain was well 
controlled.  Bilateral mastectomy incisions intact, no evidence 
of hematoma.  Tegaderm dressings in place.  Bilateral axillary 
JP drains with serous fluid draining.  Surgibra in place.
 
Medications on Admission:
Albuterol Inhaler 2 PUFF IH Q6H:PRN wheezing  
BuPROPion XL (Once Daily) 150 mg PO DAILY  
ClonazePAM 0.5 mg PO BID  
MethylPHENIDATE (Ritalin) 10 mg PO TID  
Sumatriptan Succinate 50 mg PO ONCE MR1 Please give with zofran, 
repeat in 2 hours if no effect Duration: 1 Dose  
TraZODone 50 mg PO QHS:PRN sleep  

 
Discharge Medications:
1.  Acetaminophen 650 mg PO Q6H:PRN Pain - Mild  
2.  cefaDROXil 500 mg oral BID 
RX *cefadroxil 500 mg 1 capsule(s) by mouth twice a day Disp 
#*28 Capsule Refills:*1 
3.  Docusate Sodium 100 mg PO BID  
4.  OxyCODONE (Immediate Release) 5 mg PO Q4H:PRN Pain - 
Moderate 
RX *oxycodone 5 mg 1 tablet(s) by mouth every four (4) hours 
Disp #*30 Tablet Refills:*0 
5.  Albuterol Inhaler 2 PUFF IH Q6H:PRN wheezing  
6.  BuPROPion XL (Once Daily) 150 mg PO DAILY  
7.  ClonazePAM 0.5 mg PO BID  
8.  MethylPHENIDATE (Ritalin) 10 mg PO TID  
9.  Sumatriptan Succinate 50 mg PO ONCE MR1 Please give with 
zofran, repeat in 2 hours if no effect Duration: 1 Dose  
10.  TraZODone 50 mg PO QHS:PRN sleep  

 
Discharge Disposition:
Home With Service
 
Facility:
___
 
Discharge Diagnosis:
Chronic breast infections

 
Discharge Condition:
Mental Status: Clear and coherent.
Level of Consciousness: Alert and interactive.
Activity Status: Ambulatory - Independent.

 
Discharge Instructions:
Personal Care:  
  1. You have nitropaste cream under the occlusive dressings 
over your breasts.  48 hours after surgery, wear gloves and peel 
off the dressings and discard.  Use a moist, soft cloth to 
gently remove the cream and discard cloth or launder.  Wash your 
hands immediately after.  You may then leave your incisions open 
to air or you may cover them with a clean, dry dressing daily.  
  2. Clean around the drain site(s), where the tubing exits the 
skin, with soap and water.  
  3. Strip drain tubing, empty bulb(s), and record output(s) ___ 
times per day.  
  4. A written record of the daily output from each drain should 
be brought to every follow-up appointment. Your drains will be 
removed as soon as possible when the daily output tapers off to 
an acceptable amount.  
  5. You may shower daily. No baths until instructed to do so by 
Dr. ___.  
  6. Continue to wear your surgibra.  You may remove for 
showering and laundering.
  .  
  Activity:  
  1. You may resume your regular diet.  
  2. DO NOT lift anything heavier than 5 pounds or engage in 
strenuous activity until instructed by Dr. ___.  
  .  
  Medications:  
  1. Resume your regular medications unless instructed otherwise 
and take any new meds as ordered.  
  2. You may take your prescribed pain medication for moderate 
to severe pain. You may switch to Tylenol or Extra Strength 
Tylenol for mild pain as directed on the packaging.    
 3. Take Colace, 100 mg by mouth 2 times per day, while taking 
the prescription pain medication. You may use a different 
over-the-counter stool softener if you wish.  
  4.  Do not drive or operate heavy machinery while taking any 
narcotic pain medication. You may have constipation when taking 
narcotic pain medications (oxycodone, percocet, vicodin, 
hydrocodone, dilaudid, etc.); you should continue drinking 
fluids, you may take stool softeners, and should eat foods that 
are high in fiber.  
 .  
  Call the office IMMEDIATELY if you have any of the following:  

  1. Signs of infection: fever with chills, increased redness, 
swelling, warmth or tenderness at the surgical site, or unusual 
drainage from the incision(s).  
  2. A large amount of bleeding from the incision(s) or 
drain(s).  
  3. Fever greater than 101.5 oF  
  4. Severe pain NOT relieved by your medication.  
  .  
  Return to the ER if:  
  * If you are vomiting and cannot keep in fluids or your 
medications.  
  * If you have shaking chills, fever greater than 101.5 (F) 
degrees or 38 (C) degrees, increased redness, swelling or 
discharge from incision, chest pain, shortness of breath, or 
anything else that is troubling you.  
  * Any serious change in your symptoms, or any new symptoms 
that concern you.  
  .  
DRAIN DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS  
You are being discharged with drains in place. Drain care is a 
clean procedure. Wash your hands thoroughly with soap and warm 
water before performing drain care. Perform drainage care twice 
a day. Try to empty the drain at the same time each day. Pull 
the stopper out of the drainage bottle and empty the drainage 
fluid into the measuring cup. Record the amount of drainage 
fluid on the record sheet. Reestablish drain suction. 
 
Followup Instructions:
___