Name:  ___                   Unit No:   ___
 
Admission Date:  ___              Discharge Date:   ___
 
Date of Birth:  ___             Sex:   F
 
Service: SURGERY
 
Allergies: 
No Known Allergies / Adverse Drug Reactions
 
Attending: ___.
 
Chief Complaint:
Goiter with compressive symptoms of her trachea.

 
Major Surgical or Invasive Procedure:
Total thyroidectomy.

 
History of Present Illness:
Patient presented with tracheobronchomalacia and goiter with 
compressive symptoms of her trachea with prior failed 
intubation. Total thyroidectomy was selected as the 
operation,and approved by the patient after full discussion.
 
Past Medical History:
PMHx: tracheobronchomalacia, polychrondritis, goiter, HSV 2

PSHx: sinus surgery, C section

 
Social History:
___
Family History:
Mother - uterine cancer
Father - HTN, CVA

 
Physical Exam:
GEN: NAD, AOx3
HEENT: NCAT, no hematoma noted
CV: RRR, NO MRG
PULM: No resp. distress on RA. talks comfortably. 
ABD:  NT,ND, soft  
EXT: no CCE, Pulses WNL

 
Pertinent Results:
___ 07:07AM BLOOD Calcium-9.___ with history of TBM and goiter with dyspnea with prior 
failed intubation now s/p total thyroidectomy. She was intubated 
with a 6.0 ETT in the OR.  Reader is referred to dictated 
operative report. She was admitted to the floor overnight for 
observation and her postoperative course was stable. 

Postoperatively she had good pain control and once tolerating a 
diet she was transitioned to oral pain medication (Tylenol, 
ibuprofen)as needed. Her diet was advanced when appropriate, 
which was well tolerated, and she voided without any 
issues.Incisional wounds were regularly monitored for signs of 
infection of which there were none. No evidence of hematoma, 
cervical mass effect were noted. 

At the time of discharge, the patient was doing well, afebrile 
with stable vital signs. The patient was tolerating a regular 
diet, ambulating, voiding without assistance, and pain was well 
controlled. The patient received discharge teaching and 
follow-up instructions with understanding verbalized and 
agreement with the discharge plan.

 
Medications on Admission:
Meds: acyclovir 400 TID PRN, alendronate 70 weekly, folic acid 
1', methotrexate 2.5mg 12 tab weekly, prednisone 9', tiotropium 
inhaler, calcium, vitamin D  

 
Discharge Medications:
1.  Levothyroxine Sodium 88 mcg PO DAILY 
RX *levothyroxine 88 mcg 1 tablet(s) by mouth DAILY Disp #*30 
Tablet Refills:*0 
2.  OxyCODONE (Immediate Release) 5 mg PO Q4H:PRN Pain - 
Moderate 
RX *oxycodone 5 mg 1 tablet(s) by mouth Q4:PRN Disp #*5 Tablet 
Refills:*0 
3.  Albuterol Inhaler 2 PUFF IH Q4H:PRN wheezing  
4.  PredniSONE 8 mg PO DAILY  
5.  Tiotropium Bromide 1 CAP IH DAILY  

 
Discharge Disposition:
Home
 
Discharge Diagnosis:
Goiter with compressive symptoms of her trachea.

 
Discharge Condition:
Mental Status: Clear and coherent.
Level of Consciousness: Alert and interactive.
Activity Status: Ambulatory - Independent.

 
Discharge Instructions:
Dear Ms. ___,
You were admitted for observation following your surgery, which 
was a total thyroidectomy. Your calcium level is normal at 
discharge and no calcium supplement is needed. However, if you 
develop symptoms of a low calcium such as numbness or tingling 
around your mouth, fingers or feet then contact Dr. ___ 
___ or go to emergency room if you have severe symptoms. 

Medications:
Please resume all regular home medications, unless specifically 
advised not to take a particular medication and take any new 
medications as prescribed.You are being discharged home on 
thyroid hormone replacement, Levothyroxine, please take as 
prescribed. You will be given a prescription for narcotic pain 
medication, take as prescribed. It is recommended that you take 
a stool softener such as Colace while taking oral narcotic pain 
medication to prevent constipation. You may also take 
acetaminophen (Tylenol) or ibuprofen (Motrin)as directed.

Wound care:
You may shower normally. Allow warm soapy water to run over the 
wound, rinse and pat dry gently. There is no need to keep a 
dressing over the wound. Do not apply creams or ointments. Do 
not submerge the wound in a swimming pool or bath until cleared 
at your follow up visit. Your steri strips (paper tapes) 
covering the wound will fall off by themselves).

Diet:
You may resume your regular home diet without restriction. You 
should use common sense and stick to foods that do not upset 
your stomach. You may need to start with small meals first and 
may not feel very hungry at first. This will improve over time. 
You may supplement your diet with protein shakes as needed if 
you do not feel you are taking in enough nutrition.

Activity:
You may resume all of your normal home activities, except for 
straining or lifting heavy weight. We recommend you resume 
walking, exercise, bathing, per your normal regimen. 

Warning signs:
You should contact our clinic or return to the ED immediately if 

you experience any of the following signs or symptoms:
Fever above 100.5
Worsening pain
Worsening GI upset, nausea/vomiting, diarrhea
Change in the appearance of your incision, or redness, swelling, 

or change in drainage from your incision
Any other symptoms that concern you

You can contact our clinic at any time with questions, concerns 
and to schedule your follow up appointment. You should be seen 
in our clinic for follow up following your discharge from the 
hospital.

Thanks you for allowing us to participate in your care,
Your ___ Care Team

 

 
Followup Instructions:
___