Name:  ___.              Unit No:   ___
 
Admission Date:  ___              Discharge Date:   ___
 
Date of Birth:  ___             Sex:   F
 
Service: SURGERY
 
Allergies: 
Keflex / Augmentin / Cephalosporins / Penicillins
 
Attending: ___.
 
Chief Complaint:
Morbid obesity
 
Major Surgical or Invasive Procedure:
___: 
1. laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy
2. laparoscopic hiatal hernia repair

 
History of Present Illness:
___ year-old female with class III morbid obesity and BMI of 41.9 
with co-morbidities of obstructive sleep apnea not on 
CPAP/BiPAP, hyperlipidemia, heartburn, hepatic steatosis by 
ultrasound study and depression who stated she has been able to 
lose weight in her previous weight loss efforts but unable to 
maintain. She does meet the criteria for weight loss surgery 
(WLS) as established by the Consensus Statement of the ___ 
Institutes of Health. She prefers the sleeve gastrectomy as she 
finds the Roux-en-Y gastric bypass to be too aggressive and does 
not want the dumping syndrome.  She appears to be an
acceptable candidate with no cardiac issues (normal stress 
test),not an asthmatic, no diabetes and denied reflux.  She was 
advised to take a daily multivitamin with minerals and vitamin D 
for her deficiency level. From her psychological evaluation she 
is very focused and seemed motivated with realistic goals and no 
psychosocial barriers of concern. 
During the visit she was explained all the steps of the sleeve 
gastrectomy, risks and benefits. All her questions and concerns 
were addressed and surgical consent was obtained in the office.

 
Past Medical History:
Her medical history is noted for:

1)  obstructive sleep apnea but doesn't wear CPAP
2)  heartburn
3)  history of pituitary adenoma
4)  benign positional vertigo
5)  DCIS s/p bilateral mastectomy and reconstructive surgery
6)  history of infertility
7)  hepatic steatosis by ultrasound study
8)  hyperlipidemia
9)  vitamin D deficiency
10) mild iron deficiency with saturation of 19%
11) hyperuricemia
12) posterior vitreous detachment
13) refractive amblyopia
14) drusen of the retina
15) renal stone

Her surgical history is significant for:

1)  radical debridement of right axilla ___
2)  bilateral mastectomy with tram for DCIS ___ 
3)  IVF x several times ___ 
4)  fallopian tube repair ___
5)  tonsillectomy at age ___

 
Social History:
___
Family History:
Her family history is noted for father with hypertension; mother 
with breast CA, depression, dementia and osteoporosis; there is 
a history of colon CA paternal grandfather; history of stomach 
CA maternal grandmother; brother with severe asthma; history of 
heart disease in her maternal grandfather.
 
Physical Exam:
VS:  T 97.5 P 68 BP 116/68 RR 18 02 93%RA
GEN: AA&O x 3, NAD  
HEENT: mucous membranes moist, no scleral icterus 
CHEST: Clear to auscultation bilaterally, breathing non-labored
ABDOMEN: soft, appropriately tender to palpation without rebound 
tenderness or guarding, incision sites are c/d/i covered with 
steri-strips  
EXTREMITIES: Warm, well perfused, without lower extremity 
tenderness, bilaterally  

 
Pertinent Results:
___ 05:10AM BLOOD Hct-35.3
___ 10:08AM BLOOD Hct-36.4
 
Brief Hospital Course:
The patient presented to pre-op on ___. Patient was 
evaluated by anaesthesia.  The patient was taken to the 
operating room for a laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy for 
obesity. There were no adverse events in the operating room; 
please see the operative note for details. Pt was extubated, 
taken to the PACU until stable, then transferred to the ward for 
observation.  
 Neuro: The patient was alert and oriented throughout 
hospitalization; pain was initially managed with a PCA and 
intravenous acetaminophen. Pain was very well controlled. The 
patient was then transitioned to crushed oral pain medication 
once tolerating a stage 3 diet.  
 CV: The patient remained stable from a cardiovascular 
standpoint; vital signs were routinely monitored.  
 Pulmonary: The patient remained stable from a pulmonary 
standpoint; vital signs were routinely monitored. Good pulmonary 
toilet, early ambulation and incentive spirometry were 
encouraged throughout hospitalization.  
 GI/GU/FEN: The patient was initially kept NPO. As a result, the 
patient was started on a stage 1 bariatric diet, which the 
patient tolerated well. Subsequently, the patient was advanced 
to stage 2, and then stage 3 diet which the patient was 
tolerating on day of discharge.  
 ID: The patient's fever curves were closely watched for signs 
of infection, of which there were none.  
 HEME: The patient's blood counts were closely watched for signs 
of bleeding, of which there were none.  
 Prophylaxis: The patient received subcutaneous heparin and ___ 
dyne boots were used during this stay and was encouraged to get 
up and ambulate as early as possible.  
 At the time of discharge, the patient was doing well, afebrile 
and hemodynamically stable. The patient was tolerating a 
bariatric stage 3 diet, ambulating, voiding without assistance, 
and pain was well controlled. The patient received discharge 
teaching and follow-up instructions with understanding 
verbalized and agreement with the discharge plan.  

 
Medications on Admission:
The Preadmission Medication list may be inaccurate and requires 
futher investigation.
1. dextroamphetamine-amphetamine 15 mg oral DAILY 
2. dextroamphetamine-amphetamine 5 mg oral ASDIR 
3. Multivitamins 1 TAB PO DAILY 
4. Escitalopram Oxalate 40 mg PO QHS 

 
Discharge Medications:
1.  Acetaminophen (Liquid) 650 mg PO Q6H:PRN Pain - Mild 
RX *acetaminophen 650 mg/20.3 mL 20 ml by mouth every six (6) 
hours Refills:*0 
2.  Famotidine 20 mg PO BID 
RX *famotidine 20 mg 1 tablet(s) by mouth twice a day Disp #*60 
Tablet Refills:*0 
3.  OxycoDONE Liquid ___ mg PO Q4H:PRN Pain - Moderate 
RX *oxycodone 5 mg/5 mL ___ ml by mouth every four (4) hours 
Refills:*0 
4.  Simethicone 40 mg PO TID:PRN Upper GI gas/discomfort  
5.  dextroamphetamine-amphetamine 5 mg oral ASDIR  
6.  Escitalopram Oxalate 40 mg PO QHS  
7.  Multivitamins 1 TAB PO DAILY  

 
Discharge Disposition:
Home
 
Discharge Diagnosis:
Severe obesity
Hiatal hernia

 
Discharge Condition:
Mental Status: Clear and coherent.
Level of Consciousness: Alert and interactive.
Activity Status: Ambulatory - Independent.

 
Discharge Instructions:
Discharge Instructions: Please call your surgeon or return to 
the Emergency Department if you develop a fever greater than 101 
F, shaking chills, chest pain, difficulty breathing, pain with 
breathing, cough, a rapid heartbeat, dizziness, severe abdominal 
pain, pain unrelieved by your pain medication, a change in the 
nature or severity of your pain, severe nausea, vomiting, 
abdominal bloating, severe diarrhea, inability to eat or drink, 
foul smelling or colorful drainage from your incisions, redness, 
swelling from your incisions, or any other symptoms which are 
concerning to you.

Diet: Stay on Stage III diet until your follow up appointment; 
please refer to your work book for detailed instructions. Do not 
self- advance your diet and avoid drinking with a straw or 
chewing gum. To avoid dehydration, remember to sip small amounts 
of fluid frequently throughout the day to reach a goal of 
approximately ___ mL per day. Please note the following signs 
of dehydration: dry mouth, rapid heartbeat, feeling dizzy or 
faint, dark colored urine, infrequent urination. 

Medication Instructions:
Please refer to the medication list provided with your discharge 
paperwork for detailed instruction regarding your home and newly 
prescribed medications.  

Some of the new medications you will be taking include:
1.  Pain medication: You will receive a prescription for liquid 
oxycodone, an opioid pain medication.  This medication will make 
you drowsy and impair your ability to drive a motor vehicle or 
operate machinery safely. You MUST refrain from such activities 
while taking these medications. You may also take acetaminophen 
(Tylenol) for pain management; do not exceed 4000 mg per 24 hour 
period.
2. Constipation: This is a common side effect of opioid pain 
medication.  If you experience constipation, please reduce or 
eliminate opioid pain medication.  You may trial 2 ounces of 
light prune juice and/or a stool softener (i.e. crushed docusate 
sodium tablets), twice daily until you resume a normal bowel 
pattern.  Please stop taking this medication if you develop 
loose stools. Please do not begin taking laxatives including 
until you have discussed it with your nurse or surgeon.
3. Antacids: You will be taking famotidine tablets, 20 mg twice 
daily, for one month. This medicine reduces stomach acid 
production. Please crush.
4. You must not use NSAIDS (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory 
drugs). Examples include, but are not limited to Aleve, 
Arthrotec, aspirin, Bufferin, diclofenac, Ecotrin, etodolac, 
ibuprofen, Indocin, indomethacin, Feldene, ketorolac, 
meclofenamate, meloxicam, Midol, Motrin, nambumetone, Naprosyn, 
Naproxen, Nuprin, oxaprozin, Piroxicam, Relafen, Toradol and 
Voltaren. These agents may cause bleeding and ulcers in your 
digestive system. If you are unclear whether a medication is 
considered an NSAID, please ask call your nurse or ask your 
pharmacist.
5.  Vitamins/ minerals: You may resume a chewable multivitamin, 
however, please discuss when to resume additional vitamin and 
mineral supplements with your bariatric dietitian.

Activity:
You should continue walking frequently throughout the day right 
after surgery; you may climb stairs.  
You may resume moderate exercise at your discretion, but avoid 
performing abdominal exercises or lifting items greater than10 
to 15 pounds for six weeks.

Wound Care:
You may remove any remaining gauze from over your incisions.  
You will have thin paper strips (Steri-Strips) over your 
incision; please, remove any remaining Steri-Strip seven to 10 
days after surgery.   
You may shower 48 hours following your surgery; avoid scrubbing 
your incisions and gently pat them dry.  Avoid tub baths or 
swimming until cleared by your surgeon. 
If there is clear drainage from your incisions, cover with 
clean, dry gauze. 
Please call the doctor if you have increased pain, swelling, 
redness, cloudy, bloody or foul smelling drainage from the 
incision sites. 
Avoid direct sun exposure to the incision area for up t

 
Followup Instructions:
___