Name:  ___                 Unit No:   ___
 
Admission Date:  ___              Discharge Date:   ___
 
Date of Birth:  ___             Sex:   M
 
Service: OTOLARYNGOLOGY
 
Allergies: 
No Known Allergies / Adverse Drug Reactions
 
Attending: ___.
 
Chief Complaint:
recurrent tonsillitis
 
Major Surgical or Invasive Procedure:
Tonsillectomy

 
History of Present Illness:
___ with recurrent tonsillitis
 
Past Medical History:
___
 
Social History:
___
Family History:
see outpatient chart
 
Physical Exam:
Gen: no acute distress, ambulating
Resp: oxygen saturation 94% on RA, no difficulty breathing
CV: tachycardic, denies chest pain/dyspnea/lightheadedness
HEENT: oral cavity/oropharynx dry with no evidence of active 
bleeding
 
Pertinent Results:
none
 
Brief Hospital Course:
Neuro: Pain was well controlled, initially with IV regimen which 
was transitioned to oral regimen once tolerating oral intake. 
Post-operative anti-emetics were given PRN. 
Cardiovascular: Patient was tachycardic postoperatively. EKG was 
obtained the night of surgery which demonstrated sinus 
tachycardia. Patient denied associated chest pain, dyspnea, or 
lightheadedness. Stated he was anxious about likely diagnosis of 
OSA and being in the hospital. 
Pulmonary: Postoperatively, the patient experienced 
desaturations to the mid 80's for which he was required to be 
placed on supplemental oxygen delivered by CPAP machine. Postop 
chest xray did not demonstrate any acute process, specifically 
no pulmonary edema. Patient was maintained on CPAP on night 
following surgery and was discharged home with prescription for 
CPAP machine. He was given explicit instructions to undergo 
outpatient sleep study as soon as possible for likely diagnosis 
of OSA. Oxygen was weaned and the patient was ambulating 
independently without supplemental oxygen prior to discharge.
HEENT: Oral cavity/oropharynx was dry with no active bleeding at 
time of discharge.
GI: Diet was advanced as tolerated. Bowel regimen was given prn.
GU: Patient was able to void independently.
Heme: Received heparin subcutaneously and pneumatic compression 
boots for DVT prophylaxis.
Endocrine: Monitored without any remarkable issues, discharged 
on prednisone taper.
ID: Received perioperative antibiotics 
 
Discharge Medications:
1.  Acetaminophen (Liquid) 650 mg PO Q6H:PRN Pain - Mild  
2.  OxycoDONE Liquid 5 mg PO Q6H:PRN Pain - Moderate 
  Reason for PRN duplicate override: Alternating agents for 
similar severity
3.  Prednisone Medrol dose pack 

 
Discharge Disposition:
Home
 
Discharge Diagnosis:
tonsillitis

 
Discharge Condition:
Mental Status: Clear and coherent.
Level of Consciousness: Alert and interactive.
Activity Status: Ambulatory - Independent.

 
Discharge Instructions:
You experienced low oxygen levels after your surgery that 
required continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) in order to 
be corrected. You likely have an underlying diagnosis of 
obstructive sleep apnea, however a formal sleep study needs to 
be done as an outpatient to confirm this. YOU SHOULD DO THIS AS 
SOON AS POSSIBLE. You have been given a prescription to pick up 
a CPAP machine, which you may deploy until you get the sleep 
study done.

Instructions after Tonsillectomy

It is normal to feel tired or washed out after surgery. Rest is 
important and will help you feel better. Walking is also 
important. It will help prevent problems and help you feel 
stronger and have more energy. Just remember to pace yourself 
and rest when you feel tired.

What should I expect after surgery?
- It is normal to have a sore throat and pain in your ear after 
surgery.
- After surgery you will notice white patches on the sides of 
your throat. This is normal.
- Day Surgery will call you the next business day after your 
surgery.The nurse ___ ask how you are feeling and answer any 
questions you may have.

My Special Instructions:
- Putting an ice pack on your throat and eating ice chips may 
help you feel better.
- Use a humidifier or vaporizer for comfort.
- Drink plenty of fluids.

How do I manage my pain? 
-Some pain is normal after surgery. 
-For mild pain take acetaminophen (Tylenol). Acetaminophen 
(Tylenol) is contained in many medicines. Do not take Tylenol in 
addition to another product that contains Tylenol such as 
Percocet, Vicodin or Tylenol#3 unless recommended by your 
doctor. Do not take more than 4,000mg of Tylenol in 24 hours. 
-For moderate-to-severe pain you have been given a prescription 
for a pain medication in a group of medicines called "opioids." 
You have the option to request that this prescription be filled 
at a lesser quantity. If you choose to not fill the full 
prescription, you will not be able to receive the rest of the 
prescription at a later date.  
-Be sure to take opioid medication responsibly and as directed. 
Do not drink alcohol/drive/operate machinery while taking opioid 
pain medication. -Please wean your pain medication as your pain 
decreases. 
-Narcotic pain medicine can cause constipation. To make it 
easier to have a bowel movement: 
Drink extra fluids. 
Eat foods high in fiber. 
Take a stool softener like docusate (Colace). Take a stool 
softener while taking any opioid pain medication to prevent 
constipation. 
-Be sure to safely dispose of any unused opioid medication once 
it is no longer needed  
-If your pain medicine is not working, call your doctor’s 
office.

How do I take care of myself at home?

Diet
- Start by drinking water and other fluids like juice, tea, and 
broth.
- Drink plenty of fluids. Getting enough fluids is an important 
part of your recovery.
- Do not eat food until your stomach feels better.
- Eat light foods and soft solids in the beginning like ice 
cream, yogurt, and mashed potatoes.
- Avoid sharp, dry, or rough foods such as crackers, pretzels, 
potato chips, or pizza crust for 2 weeks.

Showering and Bathing
- You may shower 24-to-48 hours after surgery.

Activity
- Slowly restart your usual activities and try to do more each 
day.
- Walking is good for you, and you may also climb stairs slowly.
- Do not do any strenuous activity like aerobics, running, or 
weight lifting until your doctor says it’s ok.
- For 2 weeks avoid any activity that increases the pressure in 
your head. After 2 weeks you can slowly begin any activity.

Safety!
For 24 hours after surgery or if you are taking narcotic pain 
medicine, do not drive, drink alcohol, or make any important 
decisions.

When should I call my doctor?
Call your doctor if you have any of these danger signs:
- You have chills or a fever above 100.4° F.
- You are unable to swallow fluids or any soft foods.
- If post-operative bleeding occurs (this can occur as late as 
7- to-10 days after surgery):
Do not lie down. Sit up and lean forward to allow the blood to 
come out of your mouth.
Ice cubes may be pressed under your jaw and neck to slow or stop 
the bleeding.
- You have increased pain that is not helped by pain medicine.
- You have nausea, vomiting, or constipation that lasts more 
than 3 days.
- You cannot urinate in 6-to-8 hours.

-If you need to speak to a doctor right away, call ___. 
Ask the operator to page the ENT resident on call.
-In an emergency always call ___.

My Medicines
- Restart all of the medicines that you take each day.
- You will get a form telling you when to restart your 
anticoagulation medicine.
Additional Instructions from My Doctor
___ Follow-up ___
It is important to see your doctor after surgery. If you do not 
already have a follow-up appointment scheduled, please call to 
make one.

 
Followup Instructions:
___