Name:  ___              Unit No:   ___
 
Admission Date:  ___              Discharge Date:   ___
 
Date of Birth:  ___             Sex:   F
 
Service: PLASTIC
 
Allergies: 
Aspirin / Prochlorperazine / Codeine / Vicodin / Percocet
 
Attending: ___
 
Chief Complaint:
Left Dupuytrens contracture
 
Major Surgical or Invasive Procedure:
Left Dupuytrens release

 
History of Present Illness:
___  is a middle-aged Caucasian
female who very definitely has Dupuytren's diathesis. Within
the past year she has had surgery on her opposite hand by us,
and prior to this had a number of fasciectomies by other
surgeons for correction of her very rapidly progressing
Dupuytren's contractures involving the left hand.
Postoperatively on the right hand she has been fine. She has
maintained her extension here and all her incisions are
healed per primum very nicely.
 
Past Medical History:
Diabetes, retinal detachments, has mitral, valve prolapse, 
hypothyroidism, borderline anemia, and depression.

 
Physical Exam:
VS: Afebrile, VSS
Constitutional: Well appearing, no acute distress
CV: RRR
Resp: Breathing comfortably
Abd: Soft, nontender, nondistended
Ext: Warm, distal pulses palpable bilaterally. Left hand in 
splint, c/d/i. Wiggling all fingers, sensation intact to light 
touch. Cap refill <2sec.
Skin: Face, neck and chest is normal
Psychiatric: Normal to judgment, insight, memory, mood and 
affect
 
Brief Hospital Course:
The patient was admitted to the plastic surgery service on 
___ and had a:
1. Digital fasciectomy, local Z-plasty flap closure closure, 
left long finger
2. Digital palmar fasciectomy, proximal interphalangeal
    release, split-thickness skin graft, left long finger.
3. Digital fasciectomy, proximal interphalangeal release,
    split-thickness skin graft resurfacing and local flaps,
    left fifth finger.
4. C-wire fixation, left long, ring and fifth fingers.
5. Application of short-arm splint.
6. Neurorrhaphy, radial digital nerve, left ring finger.
7. Revascularization of left fifth finger.
The patient tolerated the procedure well.

Neuro: Post-operatively, the patient received morphine IV with 
good effect and adequate pain control. When tolerating oral 
intake, the patient was transitioned to oral pain medications. 

CV: The patient was stable from a cardiovascular standpoint; 
vital signs were routinely monitored.

Pulmonary: The patient was stable from a pulmonary standpoint; 
vital signs were routinely monitored.
 
GI/GU: Post-operatively, the patient was given IV fluids until 
tolerating oral intake. She experienced some nausea post 
operatively which responded well to zofran and hydration. Her 
diet was advanced slowly when appropriate, which was tolerated. 
Intake and output were closely monitored. The patient managed 
her own insulin during her stay.

ID: Post-operatively, the patient was started on IV cefazolin, 
which was continued throughout the duration of her stay. The 
patient's temperature was closely watched for signs of 
infection. 

Prophylaxis: The patient was encouraged to get up and ambulate 
as early as possible. 

At the time of discharge on POD#2, the patient was doing well, 
afebrile with stable vital signs, tolerating a regular diet, 
ambulating, voiding without assistance, and pain was well 
controlled. 

 
Medications on Admission:
insulin, Levoxyl, Zoloft, and steroiddrops
 
Discharge Medications:
1. Propoxyphene N-Acetaminophen 100-650 mg Tablet Sig: One (1) 
Tablet PO Q6H (every 6 hours) as needed for pain.
Disp:*40 Tablet(s)* Refills:*0*
2. Levothyroxine 125 mcg Tablet Sig: One (1) Tablet PO DAILY 
(Daily).  
3. Dorzolamide 2 % Drops Sig: One (1) Drop Ophthalmic TID (3 
times a day).  
4. Nevanac 0.1 % Drops, Suspension Sig: One (1) drop Ophthalmic 
QID (4 times a day).  
5. Sertraline 50 mg Tablet Sig: One (1) Tablet PO DAILY (Daily). 
 

 
Discharge Disposition:
Home
 
Discharge Diagnosis:
Left Dupuytrens contracture

 
Discharge Condition:
Stable

 
Discharge Instructions:
Activity:
No lifting, keep arm elevated

Diet:
You may resume your regular diet.

Personal care:
Keep your dressings clean and dry. You may shower, keep your 
splint dry.

Return to the ER if: 
* If you are vomiting and cannot keep in fluids or your 
medications.
* If you have shaking chills, fever greater than 101.5 (F) 
degrees or 38 (C) degrees, increased redness, swelling or 
discharge from incision, chest pain, shortness of breath, or 
anything else that is troubling you.
* Any serious change in your symptoms, or any new symptoms that 
concern you.
* Please resume all regular home medications and take any new 
meds as ordered. 
* Do not drive or operate heavy machinery while taking any 
narcotic pain medication. You may have constipation when taking 
narcotic pain medications (oxycodone, percocet, vicodin, 
hydrocodone, dilaudid, etc.); you should continue drinking 
fluids, you may take stool softeners, and should eat foods that 
are high in fiber.
 
Followup Instructions:
___