Name:  ___                     Unit No:   ___
 
Admission Date:  ___              Discharge Date:   ___
 
Date of Birth:  ___             Sex:   F
 
Service: PLASTIC
 
Allergies: 
metformin
 
Attending: ___.
 
Chief Complaint:
Bilateral axillary hydradenitis and macromastia. 
 
Major Surgical or Invasive Procedure:
Bilateral axillary hydradenitis excision and vac placement. 

 
History of Present Illness:
___ who presented preoperatively for bilateral reduction 
mammoplasty and axillary hydradenitis excision who underwent 
bilateral hydradenitis excision only due to presence of open 
wound on L side. 
 
Past Medical History:
Hydradenitis 
GERD
 
Social History:
___
Family History:
See H&P
 
Physical Exam:
NAD
AAOx3
L axilla with vac in place to suction
R axilla with dressing in place. 
 
Brief Hospital Course:
The patient was admitted to the plastic surgery service on 
___ and had a bilateral axillary hydradenitis excision 
performed. The patient tolerated the procedure well. 
.

Neuro: When tolerating oral intake, the patient was transitioned 
to oral pain medications. 

.

CV: The patient was stable from a cardiovascular standpoint; 
vital signs were routinely monitored.

.

Pulmonary: The patient was stable from a pulmonary standpoint; 
vital signs were routinely monitored.

.

GI/GU: Post-operatively, the patient was given IV fluids until 
tolerating oral intake. Her diet was advanced when appropriate, 
which was tolerated well. Intake and output were closely 
monitored. 

.

ID: Post-operatively, the patient was started on PO Augmentin 
for discharge home. The patient's temperature was closely 
watched for signs of infection. 

.

Prophylaxis: The patient received subcutaneous heparin during 
this stay, and was encouraged to get up and ambulate as early as 
possible. 

.

At the time of discharge on POD#0, the patient was doing well, 
afebrile with stable vital signs, tolerating a regular diet, 
ambulating, voiding without assistance, and pain was well 
controlled. 

 
Medications on Admission:
Clindamycin
Clobetasol ointment
Minocyclne
Pantoprazole
 
Discharge Medications:
1.  Acetaminophen 650 mg PO Q6H:PRN Pain - Mild/Fever  
2.  Amoxicillin-Clavulanic Acid ___ mg PO Q12H  
3.  OxyCODONE (Immediate Release) 5 mg PO Q6H:PRN Pain - 
Moderate 
  Reason for PRN duplicate override: Alternating agents for 
similar severity 
4.  Scopolamine Patch 1 PTCH TD ONCE Duration: 72 Hours  
5.  Pantoprazole 40 mg PO Q24H  

 
Discharge Disposition:
Home With Service
 
Facility:
___
 
___ Diagnosis:
Hydradenitis.

 
Discharge Condition:
Mental Status: Clear and coherent.
Level of Consciousness: Alert and interactive.
Activity Status: Ambulatory - Independent.

 
Discharge Instructions:
Please get plenty of rest, continue to ambulate several times 
per day, and drink adequate amounts of fluids. 

.

Personal Care:
1. You will have a wound VAC dressing with a wound vac machine 
in place for discharge home. This dressing will be changed by 
the visiting nurse every three days or so when you return home.
2. While VAC is in place, please clean around the VAC site and 
monitor for air leaks of the VAC
3. A written record of the daily output from the VAC drain 
should be brought to every follow-up appointment. In addition, 
you should bring a VAC dressing kit to your follow up 
appointments with your doctor so that he/she may remove your VAC 
dressing, evaluate your wound and then apply fresh VAC dressing. 
Your VAC drain will be removed as soon as possible and when it 
is determined that the wound is healthy enough to be surgically 
closed.

4. You may shower daily with assistance as needed. You should do 
this with wound vac apparatus disconnected from you. Once you 
have showered you will need to reconnect your dressing to the 
wound vac apparatus and make sure it is functioning properly.
5. No baths until after directed by your surgeon.

.

Activity:
1. Avoid strenuous activity with wound vac in place.

.

Medications:
1. Resume your regular medications unless instructed otherwise 
and take any new meds as ordered .
2. You may take your prescribed pain medication for moderate to 
severe pain. You may switch to Tylenol or Extra Strength Tylenol 
for mild pain as directed on the packaging. Please note that 
Percocet and Vicodin have Tylenol as an active ingredient so do 
not take these meds with additional Tylenol.
3. Take prescription pain medications for pain not relieved by 
tylenol.
4. Take your antibiotic as prescribed if you are discharged on 
one.
5. Take Colace, 100 mg by mouth 2 times per day, while taking 
the prescription pain medication. You may use a different 
over-the-counter stool softener if you wish.
6. Do not drive or operate heavy machinery while taking any 
narcotic pain medication. You may have constipation when taking 
narcotic pain medications (oxycodone, percocet, vicodin, 
hydrocodone, dilaudid, etc.); you should continue drinking 
fluids, you may take stool softeners, and should eat foods that 
are high in fiber.

.

Call the office IMMEDIATELY if you have any of the following:
1. Signs of infection: fever with chills, increased redness, 
swelling, warmth or tenderness at the surgical site, or unusual 
drainage from the incision(s).
2. A large amount of bleeding from the incision(s) or drain(s).
3. Fever greater than 101.5F
4. Severe pain NOT relieved by your medication.

.

Return to the ER if: 
* If you are vomiting and cannot keep in fluids or your 
medications. 
* If you have shaking chills, fever greater than 101.5 (F) 
degrees or 38 (C) degrees, increased redness, swelling or 
discharge from incision, chest pain, shortness of breath, or 
anything else that is troubling you.
* Any serious change in your symptoms, or any new symptoms that 
concern you.

 
Followup Instructions:
___