Name:  ___                     Unit No:   ___
 
Admission Date:  ___              Discharge Date:   ___
 
Date of Birth:  ___             Sex:   F
 
Service: SURGERY
 
Allergies: 
Sulfa (Sulfonamide Antibiotics) / Vicodin / sertraline
 
Attending: ___.
 
Chief Complaint:
Morbid obesity
 
Major Surgical or Invasive Procedure:
___: Lap sleeve gastrectomy

 
History of Present Illness:
___ is a ___ year old female with class III morbid
obesity and BMI of 49.0 with co-morbidities of hypertension,
gastroesophageal reflux, hyperlipidemia, polycystic
ovary syndrome and depression.

Patient had an extensive surgical history d/t hx of
diverticulitis s/p incisional hernia repair with mesh,sigmoid
colon resection and hysterectomy.  

The patient completed the preoperative multidisciplinary process
of evaluation (bariatrician, dietitian, psychological
evaluation)in our Bariatric program and was cleared for a
surgical procedure.

 
Past Medical History:
ABDOMINAL PAIN                                                  
HYPERLIPIDEMIA                                                  
PELVIC PAIN                                                     
VAGINAL DISCHARGE                                               
URINARY FREQUENCY                                               
HYPERTENSION                                                    
POLYCYSTIC OVARIES                                              
OBESITY                                                         
ANXIETY                                                         
HEARTBURN                                                       
H/O IUD PLACEMENT  
 
Social History:
___
Family History:
Her family history is noted for father living age ___ with
hypertension, coronary artery disease s/p MI with stents,
obesity; 

mother deceased age ___ of coronary disease s/p MI;

brother deceased age ___ of likely cardiac death suddenly with
hypertension.

She is a ___ and she is single with no 
children.
 
Physical Exam:
Gen: NAD, A&Ox3
CV: RRR
Resp: breathing comfortably
Abd: Soft, minimal tenderness, nondistended, no rebound or
guarding
GU: No foley
 
Pertinent Results:
None
 
Brief Hospital Course:
The patient presented to pre-op on ___. Patient was 
evaluated by anaesthesia.  
The patient was taken to the operating room for a laparoscopic 
sleeve gastrectomy for obesity. There were no adverse events in 
the operating room; please see the operative note for details. 
Pt was extubated, taken to the PACU until stable, then 
transferred to the ward for observation.  
Neuro: The patient was alert and oriented throughout 
hospitalization; pain was initially managed with acetaminophen, 
toradol, and gabapentin. Pain was very well controlled. The 
patient was then transitioned to crushed oral pain medication 
once tolerating a stage 2 diet.  
CV: The patient remained stable from a cardiovascular 
standpoint; vital signs were routinely monitored.  
Pulmonary: The patient remained stable from a pulmonary 
standpoint; vital signs were routinely monitored. Good pulmonary 
toilet, early ambulation and incentive spirometry were 
encouraged throughout hospitalization.  
GI/GU/FEN: The patient was initially kept NPO. Afterwards, the 
patient was started on a stage 1 bariatric diet, which the 
patient tolerated well. Subsequently, the patient was advanced 
to stage 2 which the patient was tolerating on day of discharge. 
 
ID: The patient's fever curves were closely watched for signs of 
infection, of which there were none.  
HEME: The patient's blood counts were closely watched for signs 
of bleeding, of which there were none.  
Prophylaxis: The patient received subcutaneous heparin and ___ 
dyne boots were used during this stay and was encouraged to get 
up and ambulate as early as possible.  
At the time of discharge, the patient was doing well, afebrile 
and hemodynamically stable. The patient was tolerating a 
bariatric stage 3 diet, ambulating, voiding without assistance, 
and pain was well controlled. The patient received discharge 
teaching and follow-up instructions with understanding 
verbalized and agreement with the discharge plan.  
 

 
Medications on Admission:
The Preadmission Medication list may be inaccurate and requires 
futher investigation.
1. amLODIPine 10 mg PO DAILY 
2. Hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg PO DAILY 
3. Lisinopril 30 mg PO DAILY 
4. Metoprolol Succinate XL 25 mg PO DAILY 
5. Spironolactone 50 mg PO BID 
6. MetFORMIN (Glucophage) 500 mg PO BID 
7. Atorvastatin 20 mg PO QPM 
8. Albuterol Inhaler 2 PUFF IH Q4H:PRN wheezing 
9. Citalopram 20 mg PO DAILY 
10. Aspirin 81 mg PO DAILY 
11. Omeprazole 20 mg PO DAILY 

 
Discharge Medications:
1.  Ondansetron 4 mg PO Q8H:PRN Nausea/Vomiting - First Line 
Swallow tablet whole as it is smaller than the tip of a pencil 
eraser, or split tablet   
2.  OxyCODONE (Immediate Release) 5 mg PO Q6H:PRN Pain - 
Moderate 
PACU ONLY
Partial fill ok. No driving/heavy machinery. Wean. 
RX *oxycodone 5 mg 1 tablet(s) by mouth Every 6 hours as needed 
Disp #*10 Tablet Refills:*0 
3.  Metoprolol Tartrate 12.5 mg PO BID 
___ split or crush tablets prior to administration 
RX *metoprolol tartrate 25 mg 0.5 (One half) tablet(s) by mouth 
Twice daily Disp #*30 Tablet Refills:*0 
4.  Albuterol Inhaler 2 PUFF IH Q4H:PRN wheezing  
5.  amLODIPine 10 mg PO DAILY 
Split or crush tablet prior to administration  
6.  Aspirin 81 mg PO DAILY 
Take chewable form  
7.  Atorvastatin 20 mg PO QPM 
Split or crush tablet prior to administration  
8.  Citalopram 20 mg PO DAILY 
Tablet: may split or crush prior to adminsitration  
9.  Hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg PO DAILY 
swallow whole if smaller than the the tip of a pencil eraser or 
split tablet prior to administration  
10.  Lisinopril 30 mg PO DAILY 
Split or crush tablet prior to administration  
11.  MetFORMIN (Glucophage) 500 mg PO BID  
12.  Omeprazole 20 mg PO DAILY 
Open capsule, sprinkle in ___ tablespoons of water for 4 wks  
13.  Spironolactone 50 mg PO BID 
Crush tablet prior to administration  

 
Discharge Disposition:
Home
 
Discharge Diagnosis:
Morbid obesity

 
Discharge Condition:
Mental Status: Clear and coherent.
Level of Consciousness: Alert and interactive.
Activity Status: Ambulatory - Independent.

 
Discharge Instructions:
Discharge Instructions: Please call your surgeon or return to 
the Emergency Department if you develop a fever greater than 101 
F, shaking chills, chest pain, difficulty breathing, pain with 
breathing, cough, a rapid heartbeat, dizziness, severe abdominal 
pain, pain unrelieved by your pain medication, a change in the 
nature or severity of your pain, severe nausea, vomiting, 
abdominal bloating, severe diarrhea, inability to eat or drink, 
foul smelling or colorful drainage from your incisions, redness, 
swelling from your incisions, or any other symptoms which are 
concerning to you.  
Diet: Stay on Stage III diet until your follow up appointment; 
please refer to your work book for detailed instructions. Do not 
self- advance your diet and avoid drinking with a straw or 
chewing gum. To avoid dehydration, remember to sip small amounts 
of fluid frequently throughout the day to reach a goal of 
approximately ___ mL per day. Please note the following signs 
of dehydration: dry mouth, rapid heartbeat, feeling dizzy or 
faint, dark colored urine, infrequent urination.  
Medication Instructions:  
Please refer to the medication list provided with your discharge 
paperwork for detailed instruction regarding your home and newly 
prescribed medications.  
Some of the new medications you will be taking include:  
1. Pain medication: You will receive a prescription for liquid 
oxycodone, an opioid pain medication. This medication will make 
you drowsy and impair your ability to drive a motor vehicle or 
operate machinery safely. You MUST refrain from such activities 
while taking these medications. You may also take acetaminophen 
(Tylenol) for pain management; do not exceed 4000 mg per 24 hour 
period.  
2. Constipation: This is a common side effect of opioid pain 
medication. If you experience constipation, please reduce or 
eliminate opioid pain medication. You may trial 2 ounces of 
light prune juice and/or a stool softener (i.e. crushed docusate 
sodium tablets), twice daily until you resume a normal bowel 
pattern. Please stop taking this medication if you develop loose 
stools. Please do not begin taking laxatives including until you 
have discussed it with your nurse or surgeon.  
3. Antacids: You will be taking famotidine tablets, 20 mg twice 
daily, for one month. This medicine reduces stomach acid 
production. Please crush.  
4. You must not use NSAIDS (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory 
drugs). Examples include, but are not limited to Aleve, 
Arthrotec, aspirin, Bufferin, diclofenac, Ecotrin, etodolac, 
ibuprofen, Indocin, indomethacin, Feldene, ketorolac, 
meclofenamate, meloxicam, Midol, Motrin, nambumetone, Naprosyn, 
Naproxen, Nuprin, oxaprozin, Piroxicam, Relafen, Toradol and 
Voltaren. These agents may cause bleeding and ulcers in your 
digestive system. If you are unclear whether a medication is 
considered an NSAID, please ask call your nurse or ask your 
pharmacist.  
5. Vitamins/ minerals: You may resume a chewable multivitamin, 
however, please discuss when to resume additional vitamin and 
mineral supplements with your bariatric dietitian.  
Activity:  
You should continue walking frequently throughout the day right 
after surgery; you may climb stairs.  
You may resume moderate exercise at your discretion, but avoid 
performing abdominal exercises or lifting items greater than10 
to 15 pounds for six weeks.  
Wound Care:  
You may remove any remaining gauze from over your incisions. You 
will have thin paper strips (Steri-Strips) over your incision; 
please, remove any remaining Steri-Strip seven to 10 days after 
surgery.  
You may shower 48 hours following your surgery; avoid scrubbing 
your incisions and gently pat them dry. Avoid tub baths or 
swimming until cleared by your surgeon.  
If there is clear drainage from your incisions, cover with 
clean, dry gauze.  
Please call the doctor if you have increased pain, swelling, 
redness, cloudy, bloody or foul smelling drainage from the 
incision sites.  
Avoid direct sun exposure to the incision area for up to 24 
months.  
Do not use any ointments on the incision unless you were told 
otherwise.  
 
Followup Instructions:
___