Name:  ___                  Unit No:   ___
 
Admission Date:  ___              Discharge Date:   ___
 
Date of Birth:  ___             Sex:   F
 
Service: PLASTIC
 
Allergies: 
NSAIDS (Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drug) / morphine
 
Attending: ___.
 
Chief Complaint:
chronic rashes and sores beneath panniculus s/p massive weight 
loss
 
Major Surgical or Invasive Procedure:
Abdominal panniculectomy.

 
History of Present Illness:
___ year old female who lost a significant amount of weight and 
now has a large overhanging abdominal panniculus that is 
symptomatic. 
 
Past Medical History:
morbid obesity status post laparoscopic gastric bypass surgery, 
depression, anxiety and mental health issues. 
 
Social History:
___
Family History:
Notable for depression.
 
Physical Exam:
Vitals: Stable
General: AAOx3
Cardiac: WNL
Respiratory: On 1L oxygen, otherwise comfortable
Abdomen: Binder in place, JPx2 ( serosang)

 
Brief Hospital Course:
The patient was admitted to the plastic surgery service on 
___ and had a panniculectomy.  The patient tolerated the 
procedure well. 
 .
 Neuro: Post-operatively, the patient received IV pain 
medication with good effect and adequate pain control. When 
tolerating oral intake, the patient was transitioned to oral 
pain medications. 
 .
 CV: The patient was stable from a cardiovascular standpoint; 
vital signs were routinely monitored.
 .
 Pulmonary: The patient was stable from a pulmonary standpoint; 
vital signs were routinely monitored.
 .
 GI/GU: Post-operatively, the patient was given IV fluids until 
tolerating oral intake.  Her diet was advanced when appropriate, 
which was tolerated well. Patient did have some episodes of 
nausea which were treated with antiemetic.  She was also started 
on a bowel regimen to encourage bowel movement. Intake and 
output were closely monitored. 
 .
 ID: Post-operatively, the patient was started on IV cefazolin. 
The patient's temperature was closely watched for signs of 
infection. 
 .
 Prophylaxis: The patient received subcutaneous heparin during 
this stay, and was encouraged to get up and ambulate as early as 
possible. 
 .
 At the time of discharge on POD#1, the patient was doing well, 
afebrile with stable vital signs, tolerating a regular diet, 
ambulating, voiding without assistance, and pain was well 
controlled.  Drains with serous fluid draining, abdominal 
incision intact, binder in place.
 
Medications on Admission:
BuPROPion 150 mg PO BID  
Omeprazole 20 mg PO DAILY  

 
Discharge Medications:
1.  Acetaminophen 1000 mg PO TID:PRN Pain - Mild  
2.  Ondansetron 4 mg PO Q8H:PRN nausea 
RX *ondansetron 4 mg 1 tablet(s) by mouth every eight (8) hours 
Disp #*10 Tablet Refills:*1 
3.  OxyCODONE (Immediate Release) ___ mg PO Q3H:PRN Pain - 
Severe  
4.  BuPROPion 150 mg PO BID  
5.  Omeprazole 20 mg PO DAILY  

 
Discharge Disposition:
Home With Service
 
Facility:
___
 
Discharge Diagnosis:
Symptomatic abdominal panniculus

 
Discharge Condition:
Mental Status: Clear and coherent.
Level of Consciousness: Alert and interactive.
Activity Status: Ambulatory - Independent.

 
Discharge Instructions:
Personal Care: 
 1. You may remove your dressings after 48 hours post surgery. 
 2. Clean around the drain site(s), where the tubing exits the 
skin, with soap and water. 
 3. Strip drain tubing, empty bulb(s), and record output(s) ___ 
times per day. 
 4. A written record of the daily output from each drain should 
be brought to every follow-up appointment. your drains will be 
removed when you have less than 20cc of output in a 24-hour 
period, 2 days in a row. Call the office to schedule drain 
removal at that time.
 5. You may shower 48 hours after surgery but do not bathe in a 
tub until cleared by Dr. ___. 
 6. You should keep your abdominal binder until instructed 
otherwise by Dr. ___. 
 . 
 Activity: 
 1. You may resume your regular diet. 
 2. DO NOT lift anything heavier than 5 pounds or engage in 
strenuous activity until instructed by Dr. ___. 
 . 
 Medications: 
 1. Resume your regular medications unless instructed otherwise 
and take any new meds as ordered. 
 2. You may take your prescribed pain medication for moderate to 
severe pain. You may switch to Tylenol or Extra Strength Tylenol 
for mild pain as directed on the packaging. 
 3. Take prescription pain medications for pain not relieved by 
tylenol. 
 4. Take your antibiotic as prescribed. 
 5. Take Colace, 100 mg by mouth 2 times per day, while taking 
the prescription pain medication. You may use a different 
over-the-counter stool softener if you wish. 
 6. Do not drive or operate heavy machinery while taking any 
narcotic pain medication. You may have constipation when taking 
narcotic pain medications (oxycodone, percocet, vicodin, 
hydrocodone, dilaudid, etc.); you should continue drinking 
fluids, you may take stool softeners, and should eat foods that 
are high in fiber. 
 7. do not take any medicines such as Motrin, Aspirin, Advil or 
Ibuprofen etc
 . 
 Call the office IMMEDIATELY if you have any of the following: 
 1. Signs of infection: fever with chills, increased redness, 
swelling, warmth or tenderness at the surgical site, or unusual 
drainage from the incision(s). 
 2. A large amount of bleeding from the incision(s) or drain(s). 

 3. Fever greater than 101.5 oF 
 4. Severe pain NOT relieved by your medication. 
 . 
 Return to the ER if: 
 * If you are vomiting and cannot keep in fluids or your 
medications. 
 * If you have shaking chills, fever greater than 101.5 (F) 
degrees or 38 (C) degrees, increased redness, swelling or 
discharge from incision, chest pain, shortness of breath, or 
anything else that is troubling you. 
 * Any serious change in your symptoms, or any new symptoms that 
concern you. 
 . 
 DRAIN DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS 
 You are being discharged with drains in place. Drain care is a 
clean procedure. Wash your hands thoroughly with soap and warm 
water before performing drain care. Perform drainage care twice 
a day. Try to empty the drain at the same time each day. Pull 
the stopper out of the drainage bottle and empty the drainage 
fluid into the measuring cup. Record the amount of drainage 
fluid on the record sheet. Reestablish drain suction. 
 
Followup Instructions:
___