Name:  ___                    Unit No:   ___
 
Admission Date:  ___              Discharge Date:   ___
 
Date of Birth:  ___             Sex:   F
 
Service: SURGERY
 
Allergies: 
No Known Allergies / Adverse Drug Reactions
 
Attending: ___
 
Chief Complaint:
choledocholithiasis
 
Major Surgical or Invasive Procedure:
Laparoscopic cholecystectomy

 
History of Present Illness:
Ms. ___ was in her usual state of health when she suddenly 
experienced intense pain in her chest and right upper abdomen. 
She states that she had never had similar pain before and the 
pain was very intense so she immediately headed to an OSH. At 
OSH, she had a negative cardiac workup and a RUQUS with CBD 1 cm 
and concern for choledocolithiasis and cholecystitis. She 
reports no known history of gallstones. She
preferred to be treated at ___ if she was having surgery so 
left the OSH to come here. 

She reports that she vomited once on the way back from the other 
hospital and one time when she returned home and tried to drink 
some juice. She has been having some intermittent nausea since 
the pain started. After receiving pain medications at OSH, she 
states that she has not been in pain. She has not had a bowel 
movement since yesterday afternoon, prior to when the pain 
started. She has been unable to eat due to pain and nausea since 
yesterday afternoon.
 
Past Medical History:
HTN
 
Physical Exam:
itals: 24 HR Data (last updated ___
    Temp: 98.1 (Tm 98.6), BP: 119/62 (117-136/62-74), HR: 90
(75-90), RR: 18 (___), O2 sat: 93% (93-96), O2 delivery: Ra
Fluid Balance (last updated ___ @ ___
  Last 8 hours  Total cumulative 140ml
    IN: Total 360ml, PO Amt 360ml
    OUT:  Total 220ml, Urine Amt 220ml
  Last 24 hours  Total cumulative 140ml
    IN: Total 360ml, PO Amt 360ml
    OUT:  Total 220ml, Urine Amt 220ml
Physical exam:
Gen: NAD, AxOx3
Card: RRR, no m/r/g
Pulm: CTAB, no respiratory distress
Abd: Soft, non-tender, non-distended, normal bs.  Laparoscopy
incisions without signs of infection.
Wounds: c/d/i
Ext: No edema, warm well-perfused
 
Brief Hospital Course:
Ms ___ was admitted on ___  for management of 
choledocholithiasis and possible cholecystitis. She was taken to 
the operating room and underwent a laparoscopic cholecystectomy. 
Please see operative report for details of this procedure. She 
tolerated the procedure well and was extubated upon completion. 
She was subsequently taken to the PACU for recovery.

She was transferred to the surgical floor hemodynamically 
stable. Her vital signs were routinely monitored and she 
remained afebrile and hemodynamically stable. She was initially 
given IV fluids postoperatively, which were discontinued when 
she was tolerating PO's. Her diet was advanced on the morning of 
___ to regular, which she tolerated without abdominal pain, 
nausea, or vomiting. She was voiding adequate amounts of urine 
without difficulty. She was encouraged to mobilize out of bed 
and ambulate as tolerated, which she was able to do 
independently. Her pain level was routinely assessed and well 
controlled at discharge with an oral regimen as needed.

On ___, she was discharged home with scheduled follow up in 
___ clinic.

 
Medications on Admission:
The Preadmission Medication list is accurate and complete.
1. amlodipine-benazepril 2.5-10 mg oral DAILY 

 
Discharge Medications:
1.  OxyCODONE (Immediate Release) 5 mg PO Q6H:PRN Pain - 
Moderate 
RX *oxycodone 5 mg 1 capsule(s) by mouth four times a day Disp 
#*8 Capsule Refills:*0 
2.  amlodipine-benazepril 2.5-10 mg oral DAILY  

 
Discharge Disposition:
Home
 
Discharge Diagnosis:
Choledocholithiasis

 
Discharge Condition:
Mental Status: Clear and coherent.
Level of Consciousness: Alert and interactive.
Activity Status: Ambulatory - Independent.

 
Discharge Instructions:
You were admitted to the hospital with choledocholithiasis. You 
were taken to the operating room and had your gallbladder 
removed laparoscopically. You tolerated the procedure well and 
are now being discharged home to continue your recovery with the 
following instructions.
 
Please follow up in the Acute Care Surgery clinic at the 
appointment listed below.
 
ACTIVITY:
 
o Do not drive until you have stopped taking pain medicine and 
feel you could respond in an emergency.
o You may climb stairs. 
o  You may go outside, but avoid traveling long distances until 
you see your surgeon at your next visit.
o  Don't lift more than ___ lbs for 4 weeks. (This is about 
the weight of a briefcase or a bag of groceries.) This applies 
to lifting children, but they may sit on your lap.
o You may start some light exercise when you feel comfortable.
o You will need to stay out of bathtubs or swimming pools for a 
time while your incision is healing. Ask your doctor when you 
can resume tub baths or swimming.
 
HOW YOU MAY FEEL: 
o  You may feel weak or "washed out" for a couple of weeks. You 
might want to nap often. Simple tasks may exhaust you.
o  You may have a sore throat because of a tube that was in your 
throat during surgery.
o  You might have trouble concentrating or difficulty sleeping. 
You might feel somewhat depressed.
o  You could have a poor appetite for a while. Food may seem 
unappealing.
o  All of these feelings and reactions are normal and should go 
away in a short time.  If they do not, tell your surgeon.
 
YOUR INCISION:
o Tomorrow you may shower and remove the gauzes over your 
incisions. Under these dressing you have small plastic bandages 
called steri-strips. Do not remove steri-strips for 2 weeks. 
(These are the thin paper strips that might be on your 
incision.) But if they fall off before that that's okay).
o Your incisions may be slightly red around the stitches. This 
is normal.
o You may gently wash away dried material around your incision.
o Avoid direct sun exposure to the incision area.
o Do not use any ointments on the incision unless you were told 
otherwise.
o You may see a small amount of clear or light red fluid 
staining your dressing or clothes. If the staining is severe, 
please call your surgeon.
o You may shower. As noted above, ask your doctor when you may 
resume tub baths or swimming.
 
YOUR BOWELS:
o Constipation is a common side effect of narcotic pain 
medications. If needed, you may take a stool softener (such as 
Colace, one capsule) or gentle laxative (such as milk of 
magnesia, 1 tbs) twice a day. You can get both of these 
medicines without a prescription.
o If you go 48 hours without a bowel movement, or have pain 
moving the bowels, call your surgeon. 
 
PAIN MANAGEMENT:
o It is normal to feel some discomfort/pain following abdominal 
surgery. This pain is often described as "soreness". 
o Your pain should get better day by day. If you find the pain 
is getting worse instead of better, please contact your surgeon.
o You will receive a prescription for pain medicine to take by 
mouth. It is important to take this medicine as directed. o Do 
not take it more frequently than prescribed. Do not take more 
medicine at one time than prescribed.
o Your pain medicine will work better if you take it before your 
pain gets too severe.
o Talk with your surgeon about how long you will need to take 
prescription pain medicine. Please don't take any other pain 
medicine, including non-prescription pain medicine, unless your 
surgeon has said its okay.
o If you are experiencing no pain, it is okay to skip a dose of 
pain medicine.
o Remember to use your "cough pillow" for splinting when you 
cough or when you are doing your deep breathing exercises.
If you experience any of the following, please contact your 
surgeon:
- sharp pain or any severe pain that lasts several hours
- pain that is getting worse over time
- pain accompanied by fever of more than 101
- a drastic change in nature or quality of your pain
 
MEDICATIONS:
Take all the medicines you were on before the operation just as 
you did before, unless you have been told differently.
If you have any questions about what medicine to take or not to 
take, please call your surgeon.

 
Followup Instructions:
___