Name:  ___                   Unit No:   ___
 
Admission Date:  ___              Discharge Date:   ___
 
Date of Birth:  ___             Sex:   F
 
Service: SURGERY
 
Allergies: 
Mevacor / Lopid
 
Attending: ___.
 
Chief Complaint:
Left breast DCIS
 
Major Surgical or Invasive Procedure:
Left total mastectomy and sentinel lymph node biopsy

 
History of Present Illness:
The patient is a ___ woman who presents
with left breast multifocal ductal carcinoma in situ with
microinvasive carcinoma, HER-2 positive, ER positive.  The
patient is undergoing mastectomy.  She plans to have delayed
reconstruction.  Of note, her preoperative MRI identified an
area of involvement at least 6 cm and a secondary MRI biopsy
identified additional ductal carcinoma in situ.  The patient
has a sister who was diagnosed with breast cancer at the age
of ___.

 
Past Medical History:
HAND PAIN                                                       
RIGHT INGUINAL HERNIA ? RECURRENT                               
LOW BACK PAIN                                                   
FATTY LIVER                                                     
SEBORRHEIC DERMATITIS                                           
VITAMIN D DEFICIENCY                                            
HYPERLIPIDEMIA                                                  
HYPERPLASTIC RECTAL POLYPS                                      
FOOT PAIN                                                       
PAIN IN LIMB                                                    
OBESITY                                                         
CHRONIC PAIN NEC                                                
KNEE PAIN                                                       
H PYLORI GASTRITIS                                              
DYSPEPSIA                                                       
FLOATER, VITREOUS                                               
LATENT TB                                                       
TINEA PEDIS                                                     
VISUAL BLURRING                                                 
ONYCHOMYOSIS                                                    
BREAST ANOMALIES NEC                                            
H/O SINUSITIS
 
Social History:
___
Family History:
FH: 
Sister with breast cancer age ___
 
Physical Exam:
Focused Physical Exam:
Gen: Appears well, AAOx3
CV: RRR
Resp: Normal effort, no distress
Abdomen: Soft, nondistended, nontender, no rebound or guarding
Wound: Incision C/D/I, surgical bra and breast binder in place
Tube/Drain: JP x1 with SS output
Ext: Warm, well perfused, no edema
 
Pertinent Results:
Surgical pathology pending at time of discharge
 
Brief Hospital Course:
Mrs. ___ was admitted to the breast surgery service following 
her left total mastectomy and sentinel lymph node biopsy. She 
tolerated the procedure well and was recovered in the PACU. It 
was noted by anesthesia that she had some blood in her mouth on 
extubation however no laceration could be seen. It was later 
discovered that she had a history of an oral ulcer that was the 
source of the bleeding. Her PACU stay was otherwise uneventful 
and she was then admitted to the floor for overnight 
observation. Her pain was well controlled on minimal oral 
medications and she had no other significant complaints. On the 
morning of POD1 she felt well and was fit for discharge. She was 
able to void without issue, tolerate PO, ambulate independently, 
and her pain was controlled with oral medications. She was 
discharged with her surgical drain in place after receiving 
drain teaching with the assistance of a ___ interpreter. 
She is scheduled to follow up in clinic in approximately one 
month.
 
Medications on Admission:
The Preadmission Medication list is accurate and complete.
1. Omeprazole 20 mg PO DAILY 

 
Discharge Medications:
1.  Acetaminophen 1000 mg PO Q8H  
2.  OxyCODONE (Immediate Release) 5 mg PO Q6H:PRN Pain - 
Moderate 
  Reason for PRN duplicate override: Alternating agents for 
similar severity
RX *oxycodone 5 mg 1 tablet(s) by mouth every six (6) hours Disp 
#*10 Tablet Refills:*0 

 
Discharge Disposition:
Home
 
Discharge Diagnosis:
Left breast multifocal DCIS

 
Discharge Condition:
Mental Status: Clear and coherent.
Level of Consciousness: Alert and interactive.
Activity Status: Ambulatory - Independent.

 
Discharge Instructions:
Mastectomy (Breast Surgeons)

Personal Care:  
1. You may keep your incisions open to air or covered with a 
clean, sterile gauze that you change daily.
2. Clean around the drain site(s), where the tubing exits the 
skin, with soap and water.  
3. Strip drain tubing, empty bulb(s), and record output(s) ___ 
times per day.  
4. A written record of the daily output from each drain should 
be brought to every follow-up appointment. Your drains will be 
removed as soon as possible when the daily output tapers off to 
an acceptable amount.  
5. You may wear a surgical bra or soft, loose camisole for 
comfort.  
6. You may shower daily with assistance as needed. Be sure to 
secure your drains so they don't hang down loosely and pull out.
7. The Dermabond skin glue will begin to flake off in about ___ 
days. 
 
Activity:  
1. You may resume your regular diet.  
2. Walk several times a day.  
3. DO NOT lift anything heavier than 5 pounds or engage in 
strenuous activity for 6 weeks following surgery. 
Medications:  
1. Resume your regular medications unless instructed otherwise 
and take any new meds as ordered .  
2. You may take your prescribed pain medication for moderate to 
severe pain. You may switch to Tylenol or Extra Strength Tylenol 
for mild pain as directed on the packaging. Please note that 
Percocet and Vicodin have Tylenol as an active ingredient so do 
not take these meds with additional Tylenol.  
3. Take prescription pain medications for pain not relieved by 
Tylenol.  
4. Take Colace, 100 mg by mouth 2 times per day, while taking 
the prescription pain medication. You may use a different 
over-the-counter stool softener if you wish.  
5. Do not drive or operate heavy machinery while taking any 
narcotic pain medication. You may have constipation when taking 
narcotic pain medications (oxycodone, percocet, vicodin, 
hydrocodone, dilaudid, etc.); you should continue drinking 
fluids, you may take stool softeners, and should eat foods that 
are high in fiber.  

DRAIN DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS  
You are being discharged with drains in place. Drain care is a 
clean procedure. Wash your hands thoroughly with soap and warm 
water before performing drain care. Perform drainage care twice 
a day. Try to empty the drain at the same time each day. Pull 
the stopper out of the drainage bottle and empty the drainage 
fluid into the measuring cup. Record the amount of drainage 
fluid on the record sheet. Reestablish drain suction.  
Please assist patient with drain care. A daily log of individual 
drain outputs should be maintained and brought with patient to 
follow up appointment with your surgeon.

 
Followup Instructions:
___