Name:  ___                   Unit No:   ___
 
Admission Date:  ___              Discharge Date:   ___
 
Date of Birth:  ___             Sex:   M
 
Service: OTOLARYNGOLOGY
 
Allergies: 
No Known Allergies / Adverse Drug Reactions
 
Attending: ___.
 
Chief Complaint:
Parotid mass
 
Major Surgical or Invasive Procedure:
Left superficial and deep lobe parotidectomy

 
History of Present Illness:
1.5cm parotid mass, now s/p parotidectomy
 
Past Medical History:
Hypertension
 
Physical Exam:
General: well appearing, NAD
Neuro: A/Ox3, CN ___ grossly intact bilaterally
Oral Cavity: clear without discrete masses/lesions, no bleeding
Oropharynx: clear without purulent discharge, no discrete 
masses/lesions, no bleeding
Neck: soft, supple, incision CDI, suture lines intact without 
dehiscence, no palpable lymphadenopathy, no palpable masses. 
Drain in place holding suction with s/s drainage.
Resp: no respiratory distress, no stridor
 
Brief Hospital Course:
The patient was admitted to the Otolaryngology-Head and Neck 
Surgery Service on ___ after undergoing parotidectomy. 
Please see the separately dictated operative note for details of 
procedure. The patient was extubated and transferred to the 
hospital floor for further post-operative care. The 
post-operative course was uneventful and the patient was 
discharged to home. 

Hospital Course by Systems:

Neuro: Pain was well controlled, initially with IV regimen which 
was transitioned to oral regimen once tolerating oral intake. 
Post-operative anti-emetics were given PRN. 
Cardiovascular: Remained hemodynamically stable.  
Pulmonary: Oxygen was weaned and the patient was ambulating 
independently without supplemental oxygen prior to discharge.
HEENT: Surgical site monitored. Drain placed intraoperatively 
was kept in place and will be removed in clinic.
GI: Diet was advanced as tolerated. Bowel regimen was given prn.
GU: Patient was able to void independently.
Heme: Received pneumatic compression boots for DVT prophylaxis.
ID: Received perioperative antibiotics. Will be discharged with 
prophylactic antibiotics while drain in place.

At time of discharge, the patient was in stable condition, 
ambulating and voiding independently, and with adequate pain 
control.  The patient was given instructions to follow-up in 
clinic with Dr. ___.
 
Medications on Admission:
The Preadmission Medication list is accurate and complete.
1. Lisinopril 20 mg PO DAILY 
2. Atorvastatin 40 mg PO QPM 
3. Aspirin 81 mg PO DAILY 

 
Discharge Medications:
1.  Cephalexin 500 mg PO Q12H  
2.  OxyCODONE (Immediate Release) 5 mg PO Q4H:PRN pain  
3.  Aspirin 81 mg PO DAILY 
Start on ___  
4.  Atorvastatin 40 mg PO QPM  
5.  Lisinopril 20 mg PO DAILY  

 
Discharge Disposition:
Home
 
Discharge Diagnosis:
Deep parotid mass

 
Discharge Condition:
Stable

 
Discharge Instructions:
Parotidectomy Surgery Patient Discharge Instructions 

You were in the hospital for surgery to remove a parotid gland 
mass.

Please follow these instructions as you recover from your 
surgery 

What should I expect? 
-It is normal to feel tired or washed out after surgery. 
-Rest is important, but walking is also important to prevent 
problems and to regain your strength and energy. Pace yourself 
according to how you feel. Rest when you feel tired. 
-You may have a sore throat if you had general anesthesia. This 
is normal and will go away. 
-You will have numbness. This numbness usually disappears over a 
period of 4-to-6 months. 
-There might be a slight indentation at the surgical site. 

How do I manage my pain? 
-Some pain is normal after surgery. 
-For mild pain take acetaminophen (Tylenol). Acetaminophen 
(Tylenol) is contained in many medicines. Do not take Tylenol in 
addition to another product that contains Tylenol such as 
Percocet, Vicodin or Tylenol#3 unless recommended by your 
doctor. Do not take more than 4,000mg of Tylenol in 24 hours. 
-For moderate-to-severe pain you have been given a prescription 
for a pain medication in a group of medicines called "opioids." 
You have the option to request that this prescription be filled 
at a lesser quantity. If you choose to not fill the full 
prescription, you will not be able to receive the rest of the 
prescription at a later date.  
-Be sure to take opioid medication responsibly and as directed. 
Do not drink alcohol/drive/operate machinery while taking opioid 
pain medication. -Please wean your pain medication as your pain 
decreases. 
-Narcotic pain medicine can cause constipation. To make it 
easier to have a bowel movement: 
Drink extra fluids. 
Eat foods high in fiber. 
Take a stool softener like docusate (Colace). Take a stool 
softener while taking any opioid pain medication to prevent 
constipation. 
-Be sure to safely dispose of any unused opioid medication once 
it is no longer needed  
-If your pain medicine is not working, call your doctor’s 
office.

What medications should I take?
-Please resume your home medications as previously prescribed.
-If you take Aspirin, you may resume taking it one week after 
surgery.
-Pain medications as above.

How do I care for myself at home? 
Incision care
-If you have a gauze bandage, you may remove it in 48 hours. 
-Keep your incision site clean and dry. 
-If your incision is closed with staples or sutures, they will 
be removed at your follow up appointment.
-If your incision is covered with steri-strips, they will fall 
off on their own in 7-to-10 days. Do not peel them off.  Keep 
clean and dry

Showering/Bathing 
-You may shower after 48 hours after the drain is removed. Do 
not scrub your incision.  Gently clean with warm soapy water and 
pat dry.
-Do not soak your incision in water (bathing, swimming, or using 
a sauna, etc) swim for 2 weeks and cleared by your surgeon. 

Activity 
-Walking is recommended. 
-Climbing stairs is allowed. Keep your head up when you walk. 
-Slowly restart your normal daily activities. Slowly start to do 
more each day. 
-Do NOT do any strenuous activity like aerobics, running or 
weight lifting until your surgeon says it’s ok.  

Driving 
-Do NOT drive for 24 hours after surgery. 
-Do NOT drive until you are able to move your neck from side to 
side easily. 
-Do NOT drive while you are taking narcotic medicine for pain. 

Safety 
-Do NOT drink alcoholic beverages for 24 hours after surgery or 
if you are taking narcotic pain medications. 
-Do NOT make any important decisions for 24 hours after surgery 
or if you are taking narcotic pain medications. 

What may I eat? 
-You may eat whatever you want. 
-If you throat is sore, eat soft foods. 

Follow up
-If you have chest pain or difficulty breathing, call ___ or go 
to the nearest emergency room.
-Please call or return to the hospital for fever/chills, 
redness, swelling, discharge from wound, or anything else that 
is troubling you. 
-Please go to your follow up appointment with your surgeon.
-Please follow up with your primary care physician ___ ___ 
days.
 
Followup Instructions:
___