Name:  ___                 Unit No:   ___
 
Admission Date:  ___              Discharge Date:   ___
 
Date of Birth:  ___             Sex:   F
 
Service: SURGERY
 
Allergies: 
No Known Allergies / Adverse Drug Reactions
 
Attending: ___.
 
Chief Complaint:
Morbid Obesity
 
Major Surgical or Invasive Procedure:
___ - laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy

 
History of Present Illness:
HPI:
___ female with hypothyroidism, PCOS, and obesity who
presents with weight of 288.8 pounds as of ___ with her
initial screen weight of 275.5 pounds on ___, height 66 
inches
and BMI of 46.6. She states that she has had difficulty losing
weight despite numerous attempts, including diet and exercise
programs. At her maximum, she has lost 50-60 pounds but has been
unable to sustain this weight loss. She would like to maintain
this weight loss to better control her PCOS. She has been placed
on metformin and spironolactone for PCOS management but she has
discontinued these medications as she would like to control her
PCOS with weight loss. She currently exercises ___ times per 
week
but continues to be unable to sustain her weight loss. She 
denies
any eating disorders but does have depression and anxiety 
related
to her weight, for which she is prescribed escitalopram.

 
Past Medical History:
Hypothyroidism
PCOS                                                          
Hyperlipidemia
Morbid Obesity
 
Social History:
___
Family History:
Pheochromocytoma
Malignancy, unknown
 
Physical Exam:
 VS:  
T: 98.2
BP: 122/80
HR: 72
RR: 18
O2 Sat: 94%
GEN: awake, alert, and oriented, no acute distress, pleasant to 
conversation HEENT: (-)LAD, mucous membranes moist, trachea 
midline, EOMI  
CHEST: Clear to auscultation bilaterally, (-) cyanosis.  
ABDOMEN: soft, appropriately tender, incisional steri-strips are 
clear, dry, and intact 
EXTREMITIES: Warm, well perfused, no edema 

 
Pertinent Results:
___ 12:23PM BLOOD Hct-36.3
___ 05:22AM BLOOD Hct-34.0
 
Brief Hospital Course:
The patient presented to pre-op on ___. Patient was 
evaluated by anesthesia.  
The patient was taken to the operating room for a laparoscopic 
sleeve gastrectomy for obesity. There were no adverse events in 
the operating room; please see the operative note for details. 
Pt was extubated, taken to the PACU until stable, then 
transferred to the ward for observation.  
 
Neuro: The patient was alert and oriented throughout 
hospitalization; pain was initially managed with a PCA. Pain was 
very well controlled. The patient was then transitioned to 
crushed oral pain medication once tolerating a stage 3 diet.  

CV: The patient remained stable from a cardiovascular 
standpoint; vital signs were routinely monitored.  

Pulmonary: The patient remained stable from a pulmonary 
standpoint; vital signs were routinely monitored. Good pulmonary 
toilet, early ambulation and incentive spirometry were 
encouraged throughout hospitalization.  

GI/GU/FEN: The patient was initially kept NPO. Afterwards, the 
patient was started on a stage 1 bariatric diet, which the 
patient tolerated well. Subsequently, the patient was advanced 
to stage 2, and then stage 3 diet which the patient was 
tolerating on day of discharge.  

ID: The patient's temperature curves were closely watched for 
signs of infection, of which there were none.  

HEME: The patient's blood counts were closely watched for signs 
of bleeding, of which there were none.  

Prophylaxis: The patient received subcutaneous heparin and ___ 
dyne boots were used during this stay and was encouraged to get 
up and ambulate as early as possible.  

At the time of discharge, the patient was doing well, afebrile 
and hemodynamically stable. The patient was tolerating a 
bariatric stage 3 diet, ambulating, voiding without assistance, 
and pain was well controlled. The patient received discharge 
teaching and follow-up instructions with understanding 
verbalized and agreement with the discharge plan.  

 
Medications on Admission:
The Preadmission Medication list is accurate and complete.
1. Escitalopram Oxalate 20 mg PO DAILY 
2. Levothyroxine Sodium 150 mcg PO DAILY 
3. biotin 10,000 mcg oral DAILY 

 
Discharge Medications:
1.  Acetaminophen (Liquid) 650 mg PO Q6H 
RX *acetaminophen 500 mg/15 mL 30 mL by mouth every 8 hours Disp 
#*500 Milliliter Refills:*0 
2.  Famotidine 20 mg PO BID 
Crush tablet before taking 
RX *famotidine 20 mg 1 tablet(s) by mouth twice a day Disp #*60 
Tablet Refills:*0 
3.  OxycoDONE Liquid ___ mg PO Q6H:PRN Pain - Severe 
Do not drink or drive while taking this medication. Please 
responsibly dispose of any extra.  
RX *oxycodone 5 mg/5 mL ___ ml by mouth every 6 hours Disp 
#*250 Milliliter Refills:*0 
4.  Escitalopram Oxalate 20 mg PO DAILY  
5.  Levothyroxine Sodium 150 mcg PO DAILY  
6. HELD- biotin 10,000 mcg oral DAILY  This medication was held. 
Do not restart biotin until your follow-up visit

 
Discharge Disposition:
Home
 
Discharge Diagnosis:
obesity status post laparoscopic gastric sleeve

 
Discharge Condition:
Mental Status: Clear and coherent.
Level of Consciousness: Alert and interactive.
Activity Status: Ambulatory - Independent.

 
Discharge Instructions:
Thank you for allowing us to be a part of your are team: 

Please call your surgeon or return to the Emergency Department 
if you develop a fever greater than ___ F, shaking chills, chest 
pain, difficulty breathing, pain with breathing, cough, a rapid 
heartbeat, dizziness, severe abdominal pain, pain unrelieved by 
your pain medication, a change in the nature or severity of your 
pain, severe nausea, vomiting, abdominal bloating, severe 
diarrhea, inability to eat or drink, foul smelling or colorful 
drainage from your incisions, redness, swelling from your 
incisions, or any other symptoms which are concerning to you.

Diet: Stay on Stage III diet until your follow up appointment; 
please refer to your work book for detailed instructions. Do not 
self- advance your diet and avoid drinking with a straw or 
chewing gum. To avoid dehydration, remember to sip small amounts 
of fluid frequently throughout the day to reach a goal of 
approximately ___ mL per day. Please note the following signs 
of dehydration: dry mouth, rapid heartbeat, feeling dizzy or 
faint, dark colored urine, infrequent urination. 

Medication Instructions:
Please refer to the medication list provided with your discharge 
paperwork for detailed instruction regarding your home and newly 
prescribed medications.  
Some of the new medications you will be taking include:
1.  Pain medication: You will receive a prescription for liquid 
oxycodone, an opioid pain medication.  This medication will make 
you drowsy and impair your ability to drive a motor vehicle or 
operate machinery safely. You MUST refrain from such activities 
while taking these medications. You may also take acetaminophen 
(Tylenol) for pain management; do not exceed 4000 mg per 24 hour 
period.
2. Constipation: This is a common side effect of opioid pain 
medication.  If you experience constipation, please reduce or 
eliminate opioid pain medication.  You may trial 2 ounces of 
light prune juice and/or a stool softener (i.e. crushed docusate 
sodium tablets), twice daily until you resume a normal bowel 
pattern.  Please stop taking this medication if you develop 
loose stools. Please do not begin taking laxatives including 
until you have discussed it with your nurse or surgeon.
3. Antacids: You will be taking famotidine tablets, 20 mg twice 
daily, for one month. This medicine reduces stomach acid 
production. Please crush.
4. You must not use NSAIDS (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory 
drugs). Examples include, but are not limited to Aleve, 
Arthrotec, aspirin, Bufferin, diclofenac, Ecotrin, etodolac, 
ibuprofen, Indocin, indomethacin, Feldene, ketorolac, 
meclofenamate, meloxicam, Midol, Motrin, nambumetone, Naprosyn, 
Naproxen, Nuprin, oxaprozin, Piroxicam, Relafen, Toradol and 
Voltaren. These agents may cause bleeding and ulcers in your 
digestive system. If you are unclear whether a medication is 
considered an NSAID, please ask call your nurse or ask your 
pharmacist.
5.  Vitamins/ minerals: You may resume a chewable multivitamin, 
however, please discuss when to resume additional vitamin and 
mineral supplements with your bariatric dietitian.

Activity:
You should continue walking frequently throughout the day right 
after surgery; you may climb stairs.  
You may resume moderate exercise at your discretion, but avoid 
performing abdominal exercises or lifting items greater than10 
to 15 pounds for six weeks.

Wound Care:
You may remove any remaining gauze from over your incisions.  
You will have thin paper strips (Steri-Strips) over your 
incision; please, remove any remaining Steri-Strip seven to 10 
days after surgery.   
You may shower 48 hours following your surgery; avoid scrubbing 
your incisions and gently pat them dry.  Avoid tub baths or 
swimming until cleared by your surgeon. 
If there is clear drainage from your incisions, cover with 
clean, dry gauze. 
Please call the doctor if you have increased pain, swelling, 
redness, cloudy, bloody or foul smelling drainage from the 
incision sites. 
Avoid direct sun exposure to the incision area for up to 24 
months.
Do not use any ointments on the incision unless you were told 
otherwise.

We wish you a speedy recovery. 
-___ Surgery
 
Followup Instructions:
___