Name:  ___               Unit No:   ___
 
Admission Date:  ___              Discharge Date:   ___
 
Date of Birth:  ___             Sex:   F
 
Service: NEUROSURGERY
 
Allergies: 
No Known Allergies / Adverse Drug Reactions
 
Attending: ___.
 
Chief Complaint:
Slurred speech, gait disturbances
 
Major Surgical or Invasive Procedure:
None
 
History of Present Illness:
___ is a ___ year old female who presented to an outside 
hospital after developing sudden onset slurring of her speech 
and a near syncopal episode earlier today. She underwent CT of 
the head and imaging revealed two left sided brain lesions 
without midline shift and her symptoms were also noted to be 
transient and self resolved. She is currently at her neurologic 
baseline per her
family at the bedside. She denies any symptoms at this time, she 
has no nausea, vomiting, weakness, difficulty speaking or 
breathing.
 
Past Medical History:
HTN, recent flu, chronic Tobacco use, RLE reconstruction ___ 
years ago s/p trauma, macular degeneration
 
Social History:
___
Family History:
NC
 
Physical Exam:
On Admission:
Gen: WD/WN, comfortable, NAD.
HEENT: Pupils: PERRL  EOMs Intact without nystagmus
Neck: Supple.
Lungs: CTA bilaterally.
Cardiac: RRR. S1/S2.
Abd: Soft, NT, BS+
Extrem: Warm and well-perfused.
Neuro:
Mental status: Awake and alert, cooperative with exam, normal
affect.
Orientation: Oriented to person, place, and date.
Recall: ___ objects at 5 minutes.
Language: Speech slightly hesitant which is baseline per family
with good comprehension and repetition.
Naming intact. No dysarthria or paraphasic errors.

Cranial Nerves:
I: Not tested
II: Pupils equally round and reactive to light, 3mm to
2mm bilaterally. Visual fields are full to confrontation.
III, IV, VI: Extraocular movements intact bilaterally without
nystagmus.
V, VII: Facial strength and sensation intact and symmetric.
VIII: Hearing intact to voice.
IX, X: Palatal elevation symmetrical.
XI: Sternocleidomastoid and trapezius normal bilaterally.
XII: Tongue midline without fasciculations.

Motor: Normal bulk and tone bilaterally. No abnormal movements,
tremors. Strength full power ___ throughout. No pronator drift

Sensation: Intact to light touch

Toes downgoing bilaterally

On Discharge:
Awake and alert. Oriented to self, location, and date. 
Extraocular movements intact. Face symmetric, tongue midline. No 
pronator drift. Moves all extremities with ___ strength. 
Sensation intact to light touch throughout all extremities. 
 
Pertinent Results:
___ MRI Brain with and without contrast
1. A 2.4 cm left temporal lobe heterogeneously enhancing mass 
with surrounding white matter edema pattern resulting in 
effacement of the adjacent sulci and left temporal horn.  There 
is also a left frontal calvarial enhancing 1.9 cm lesion.  The 
findings are concerning for metastatic disease. 
2. Additional extra-axial lesion abutting the posteromedial left 
temporal lobe demonstrates T2 and gradient echo hypointensity.  
This could represent an additional metastatic lesion given above 
findings, potentially demonstrating micro hemorrhages, however 
the imaging appearance is most suggestive of meningioma. 
3. Additional findings as described above. 

___ CT Chest
Spiculated pulmonary mass in the lateral aspect of the right 
upper is 
concerning for a primary bronchus carcinoma. 2 indeterminate 
pulmonary 
nodules in the right upper lobe (may represent metastatic 
nodules in the same lobe). 
Mildly enlarged right hilar and right lower paratracheal lymph 
nodes are 
concerning for lymph node metastatic disease. 
Suspected left adrenal and cerebral and calvarium metastatic 
disease.  
Bubbly part solid pulmonary nodule in the superior segment of 
the right lower lobe is concerning for a primary lesion in the 
adenocarcinoma spectrum of bronchus carcinomas. 
Pulmonary embolus in the descending pulmonary artery on the 
right. 

___ CT Abdomen/Pelvis
1. Large heterogeneously enhancing mass within the left adrenal 
gland is 
consistent with metastatic disease. 
2. Prominent retroperitoneal lymph nodes. 
3. No other sites of metastatic disease in the abdomen or 
pelvis. 
4. Expansile intraluminal filling defect within the right common 
femoral vein is consistent with deep venous thrombosis. 
 
Brief Hospital Course:
___ is a ___ year old female who was transferred from an 
outside hospital after workup for an episode of slurred speech 
and gait disturbances revealed two left sided brain lesions. She 
was admitted for further oncologic workup.

#Oncology Workup
The patient was placed on Keppra for seizure prophylaxis and 
Decadron for cerebral swelling. She states that she does not 
want to continue taking these medications. CT chest revealed a 
spiculated pulmonary mass in the right upper lobe concerning for 
primary bronchus carcinoma as well as two smaller nodules. CT 
abdomen/pelvis revealed an adrenal mass. Consultation with neuro 
oncology and radiation oncology would be the next step as well 
as obtaining tissue for diagnosis. This was discussed with the 
patient and her son, who is the healthcare proxy. The patient 
and her son denied treatment. Risks of leaving without treatment 
including recurrent or worsening symptoms, additional 
metastasis, and death were discussed. Treatment was still denied 
by the patient and her son.

#Pulmonary embolus/Deep venous thrombosis
CT chest and abdomen revealed a PE in the right descending 
pulmonary artery as well as a right common femoral DVT. 
Treatment with heparin drip with serial labs to monitor PTT with 
eventual transition to oral anticoagulation was discussed with 
both the patient and her son who is the healthcare proxy. The 
patient and her son denied treatment. Risks of leaving without 
treatment including shortness of breath, respiratory distress, 
respiratory arrest, myocardial infarction, stroke, and death 
were discussed. Treatment was still denied by the patient and 
her son.  

The patient and her son were spoken with, at length, regarding 
further treatment in regards to the lesions as well as PE/DVT. 
Risks of leaving with no treatment was also discussed. All of 
their questions were answered. After brief contemplation, the 
patient and her son decided she would leave the hospital against 
medical advice. She did agree to follow up with her primary care 
provider and she was encouraged to do so as soon as possible. 
She was discharged home against medical advice. 
 
Medications on Admission:
Amlodipine, HCTZ
 
Discharge Medications:
1.  Acetaminophen 650 mg PO TID  
2.  Dexamethasone 4 mg PO Q6H 
Patient refusing to take this medication and refuses to take a 
prescription.  
3.  Famotidine 20 mg PO BID  
4.  LevETIRAcetam 500 mg PO BID 
Patient is refusing to take this medication and refuses to take 
a prescription.  
5.  amLODIPine 5 mg PO DAILY  
6.  Hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg PO DAILY  

 
Discharge Disposition:
Home
 
Discharge Diagnosis:
Brain lesion
Lung lesion
Adrenal lesion
Pulmonary embolism
Deep venous thrombosis

 
Discharge Condition:
Mental Status: Confused - sometimes.
Level of Consciousness: Alert and interactive.
Activity Status: Ambulatory - Independent.

 
Discharge Instructions:
You were admitted to ___ after you presented to an outside 
hospital for an episode of slurred speech. A CT brain performed 
there showed two left sided brain lesions. You were admitted for 
further oncologic workup. A CT chest/abdomen/pelvis was 
completed and positive for three lung nodules and an adrenal 
mass as well as pulmonary embolism and deep venous thrombosis.
We spoke about further treatment for malignancy including neuro 
oncology and radiation oncology consultations as well as 
possible biopsy of a mass for tissue diagnosis. You refused the 
consults and any intervention. We recommend you take Keppra for 
seizure prophylaxis and Decadron for cerebral edema. You are 
refusing to take both medications. 
We spoke about further treatment for pulmonary embolism and deep 
venous thrombosis. This would include Heparin and possible 
transition to Coumadin for outpatient management. You are 
refusing both medications. 
You are leaving against medical advice. 
 
Followup Instructions:
___