Name:  ___                   Unit No:   ___
 
Admission Date:  ___              Discharge Date:   ___
 
Date of Birth:  ___             Sex:   F
 
Service: PSYCHIATRY
 
Allergies: 
No Known Allergies / Adverse Drug Reactions
 
Attending: ___.
 
Chief Complaint:
"I had an appointment with my therapist and she told me to come 
to the hospital" 
 
Major Surgical or Invasive Procedure:
None

 
History of Present Illness:
Case of a ___ y/o female with a past psychiatric history of
depression and anxiety and self diagnosed BPD, who was brought 
in
by family after endorsing suicidal ideation with plan at
therapist appointment earlier today.

On initial interview patient endorses the following;
On interview patient states she has been having suicidal 
thoughts
for a very long time but had never felt comfortable sharing this
with her therapist. She states she had been trying to appear 
more
normal and well compensated during her initial visits because 
she
was embarrassed about sounding like a crazy person. However 
today
she felt as if she needed to tell her therapist everything, and
admitted that she had been having thoughts of killing herself on
the day of her birthday, by taking all of the medications in her
medicine cabinet at her house. She states she would try to do
this during a time of the day when there was no one in the 
house.
She feels that the reason why she chose this date is because she
can not see herself living for another year of life as a 
failure.
She states she currently feels bad that she has not been able to
go to school and had to leave during her first semester because
of worsening depression and anxiety. She has also not been able
to get a job, and feels that her life does not have a direction. 


Another stressor in her life is her relationship with her 
father,
she states that since ___ she has not spoken with him, this was
a conscious decision made by her and her mother. As he would
belittle her, and make negative comments about her appearance,
and criticize her despite her expressing severe distress to him,
and telling him she would feel like taking her life whenever he
made these comments. Because her father continued to emotionally
abuse her, she decided to cut all contact with him. She also
notes that her life long pet recently passed away 2 months ago,
therefore she feels she no longer has anyone she can share her
feelings and distress. 

She notes that her mood has worsened during the past few months
and she will spend most of her time in bed sleeping. At this
point she has been sleeping around 18 hours a day. She only
leaves the house for appointments. She refers feeling guilty
about not speaking to her father, and fears that he will 
suddenly
die with out her being able to speak to him. She also endorses
decreased energy, motivation, interest, concentration. She also
endorses sever changes in mood, at one point she will be sad at
another point she will be very irritable, she refers she will
slit with people, at times will feel like no one likes her and
has been reading about these symptoms and believes she might 
have
borderline personality disorder, however she has not been
diagnosed by her therapist and only endorsed these symptoms in
her appointment today. Currently she states she does not have
suicidal thoughts but feels that should she go back home these
thoughts would return with the same plan as above. 

On initial interview patient endorses the following:
Patient notes that the holidays are particularly bad for her in
terms of her mood, not only because of her birthday, but also
because over the years there have been may deaths in the family.
She note one of her favorite uncles died around this time of the
year, and other family member passed away a few years back. She
states a lot of things happen during the holidays. Currently she
feels safe in the unit and does not endorse current suicidal
thoughts, denies HI, AVH. 

Psych ROS 
Depression: please see HPI
Mania: denies 
Hallucinations: denies 
Delusions: denies 
Anxiety: endorses anxiety most of the time, endorses intrusive
thoughts 
Panic: endorses frequent episodes of vomiting, nausea, numbness
and pain in her arm in the setting of sever emotional distress,
last episode happened yesterday 
PTSD: denies trauma history 
Compulsions: denies 
Eating disorder: denies restriction, purging, laxative use 

   
 ED Course: no acute events noted, no restraints applied 
   
 Medication admins: none
   
 ROS: 12 points reviewed and found negative 

 
Past Medical History:
Past psychiatric history: 
Diagnostically: depression, anxiety and self diagnosed 
borderline
personality disorder 
Hospitalizations: denies 
Current treaters and treatment: has been seeing a therapist 
since
her senior year of high school, currently is being seen by ___ (___)
Medication and ECT trials: none 
Self-injury: denies 
Harm to others: denies 
Access to weapons: none 

Past medical history: 
Asthma in childhood not had symptoms since middle school

 
Social History:
Substance use history: 
ETOH: denies 
Cocaine/crack: denies 
BZD: denies 
Tobacco: denies 
Opiates: denies 
MJ: denies 
Amph/meht/PCP/LSD: denies 

Forensic history: 
Arrests: denies 
Convictions and jail terms: denies 
Current status (pending charges, probation, parole: denies
 
Personal and Social History: ___
Family History:
Family psychiatric history: 
Psych Illness: denies 
SAs: denies 
Addictions: denies 
 
Physical Exam:
ADMISSION PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:
 VS: BP:123/81   HR:72   temp:98.2    resp:16  O2 sat:100%

General: young adult female in NAD. Well-nourished,
well-developed. Appears stated age.
 HEENT: Normocephalic, atraumatic. PERRL, EOMI. Oropharynx 
clear.
 Neck: Supple.
 Back: No significant deformity.
 Lungs: CTA ___. No crackles, wheezes, or rhonchi.
 CV: RRR, no murmurs/rubs/gallops. 
 Abdomen: +BS, soft, nontender, nondistended. No palpable masses
or organomegaly.
 Extremities: No clubbing, cyanosis, or edema.
 Skin: No rashes, abrasions, scars, or lesions. 

Neurological:
 Cranial Nerves:
 -Pupils symmetry and responsiveness to light and accommodation:
PERRLA
 -Visual fields: full to confrontation
 -EOM: full
 -Facial sensation to light touch in all 3 divisions: equal
 -Vacial symmetry on eye closure and smile: symmetric
 -Hearing bilaterally to rubbing fingers: normal
 -Phonation: normal
 -Shoulder shrug: intact
 -Tongue: midline

Motor: Normal bulk and tone bilaterally. No abnormal movements,
no tremor. Strength: full power ___ throughout. Coordination:
Normal on finger to nose test. DTRs: 2+ and symmetrical
throughout. Sensation: Intact to light touch throughout. 
 Gait: Steady. Normal stance and posture. No truncal ataxia.
 Romberg: Negative.

Cognition: 
 Wakefulness/alertness: awake and alert 
 *Attention (digit span, MOYB): able to do MOYB 
 *Orientation: oriented to person, place and time 
 Executive function (go-no go, Luria, trails, FAS): not formally
assessed 
 *Memory: intact immediate and delayed recall    
 *Fund of knowledge: able to state author ___  
 Calculations: able to state 7 quarters in $1.75 
 Abstraction: apple/oranges "fruits" able to interpret proverb
"spilled/milk" correctly " don't sweat the small stuff" 
 Visuospatial: no gross abnormalities on examination 
 *Speech: normal volume, tone and rate 
 *Language: fluent in ___ 

Mental Status:
 *Appearance: age appearing AA female in no acute distress,
appropriate grooming and hygiene, dressed in hospital gown with
glasses  
 Behavior: patient pleasant and cooperative, but very anxious,
fidgeting with her feet, but no frank motor agitation or
retardation  
 *Mood and Affect: "depressed and anxious" dysthymic affect, 
mood
congruent 
 *Thought process / *associations: linear, logical, no LOA. 
 *Thought Content: patient endorses SI with plan to overdose on
pills on the day of her birthday, denies HI, AVH, was not
observed to be responding to internal stimuli 
 *Judgment and Insight: limited/poor 
DISCHARGE PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:
 VITAL SIGNS: T 97.8, BP 142/79, HR 109, O2 100%

 NEURO:
 Station and Gait: Normal station and gait.
 Tone and Strength: Walks easily. Supple tone.
 Cranial Nerves: No facial asymmetry appreciated, EOMI
 Abnormal Movements: No dystonia, tremor, or tardive dyskinesia

 MSE:
 Appearance: appears stated age, wearing sweater and jeans,
earrings,
 glasses, acne
 Behavior: cooperative with interview, very open
 Mood and Affect: "pretty good", euthymic, mood congruent
 Thought Process: Logical, linear, goal-directed. No LOA
 Thought Content: No SI, No HI, No A/V/O H
 Judgment and Insight: poor/impaired

 COGNITION:
 Attention: Attentive to interview.
 Orientation: Oriented to day, date, situation
 Executive function: NT
 Memory: Intact to recent and past history
 Fund of knowledge: Appropriate for level of education.
 Calculations: NT
 Abstraction: NT
 Visuospatial: NT
 Speech: Normal rate, rhythm, prosody, and volume.
 Language: Fluent in ___ without neologisms or paraphasic
 errors.

On the day of discharge, Ms. ___ reported feeling well. She 
expressed interest in continuing with treatment. She appeared 
motivated. Family meeting with pt and pt's mother was held. 
Reviewed and addressed pt's and mother's concerns. It was felt 
that Ms. ___ is ready for the discharge.
 
Pertinent Results:
Admission Labs:
CBC wnl
BMP wnl
Urine tox negative
Serum tox negative
TSH 2.___. LEGAL & SAFETY: 
On admission, the patient signed a conditional voluntary 
agreement (Section 10 & 11) and remained on that level 
throughout their admission.  She was also placed on 15 minute 
checks status on admission and remained on that level of 
observation throughout while being unit restricted.
 
2. PSYCHIATRIC:
#) Major depressive episode: Ms. ___ is a ___ y/o female with 
a past psychiatric history of depression and anxiety who was 
brought in by family after endorsing suicidal ideation at 
therapist appointment, with plan to take all the pills in 
medicine cabinet. She noted recent stressors, including the 
death of her cat, having to spend time with family over the 
holidays, and ruminating more and more about feeling "worthless" 
due to lack of job and schooling. She endorsed several 
neurovegetative symptoms concerning for a major depressive 
episode. The patient was thus started on sertraline which was 
uptitrated to 50 mg qhs, which the patient tolerated without 
issue. She was actively engaged in her treatment, attending 
groups and taking notes. She engaged in individual, group, and 
milieu therapy. Her symptoms improved throughout her stay, and 
she denied thoughts of wanting to die during every interview 
with her treatment team. She expressed interest in partial 
programs and was future oriented, actively discussed plans to 
return to school. She was discharged with follow-up arranged 
with her PCP, ___, therapy, as well as intake at ___ 
___ program.

3. SUBSTANCE USE DISORDERS:
#) None
 
4. MEDICAL
#) None
 
5. PSYCHOSOCIAL
#) GROUPS/MILIEU: 
The patient was encouraged to participate in the various groups 
and milieu therapy opportunities offered by the unit. The 
patient often attended these groups that focused on teaching 
patients various coping skills.  The patient was cooperative and 
pleasant in the milieu, though sometimes isolative. She did 
attend many groups and took notes throughout.
 
#) COLLATERAL CONTACTS & FAMILY INVOLVEMENT
Collateral information was obtained from the patient's mother 
via telephone on admission. Additionally, a family meeting with 
the patient's mother was held on the unit prior to the patient's 
discharge to her care. The patient's mother endorsed significant 
improvement in the patient's depressive symptoms and noted her 
affect appeared brighter and she seemed more motivated. She 
stated she was "not at al concerned" about the patient engaging 
in self harm.
 
#) INTERVENTIONS
- Medications: Sertraline 50 mg, Hydroxyzine 25 mg bid prn
- Psychotherapeutic Interventions: Individual, group, and milieu 
therapy.
- Coordination of aftercare: Therapy, Psychiatry, and Partial 
Hospital Program
 
INFORMED CONSENT: The team discussed the indications for, 
intended benefits of, and possible side effects and risks of 
starting this medication, and risks and benefits of possible 
alternatives, including not taking the medication, with this 
patient.   We discussed the patient's right to decide whether to 
take this medication as well as the importance of the patient's 
actively participating in the treatment and discussing any  
questions about medications with the treatment team, and I  
answered the patient's questions.  The patient appeared able to 
understand and consented to begin the medication.
 
RISK ASSESSMENT
On presentation, the patient was evaluated and felt to be at an 
increased risk of harm to herself and/or others based upon the 
following risk factors: active SI with plan, acute psychosocial 
stressors, recent loss of pet, lack of outpatient psychiatrist, 
chronic mental illness, hopelessness, age, single status, LGBT 
status, lack of purpose, polarized thinking, unemployment. The 
patient's risk factors of active SI with plan, acute mood 
episode, lack of outpatient psychiatrist, and feeling hopeless 
were addressed on the unit via psychotherapy, medications, and 
setting the patient up with outpatient treaters and partial 
hospital program.  Finally, the patient is being discharged with 
many protective risk factors, including help-seeking nature, 
future-oriented, children in the home, lack of substance abuse 
disorder, and strong social supports.  Overall, based on the 
totality of our assessment at this time, the patient is not at 
an acutely elevated risk of self-harm nor danger to others.
 
Our Prognosis of this patient is good.
 
Medications on Admission:
None
 
Discharge Medications:
1.  HydrOXYzine 25 mg PO Q6H:PRN anxiety/sleep 
RX *hydroxyzine HCl 25 mg 1 pill by mouth bid prn Disp #*30 
Tablet Refills:*0 
2.  Sertraline 50 mg PO QHS 
RX *sertraline 50 mg 1 tablet(s) by mouth at bedtime Disp #*14 
Tablet Refills:*0 

 
Discharge Disposition:
Home
 
Discharge Diagnosis:
Major depressive disorder

 
Discharge Condition:
Mental Status: Clear and coherent.
Level of Consciousness: Alert and interactive.
Activity Status: Ambulatory - Independent.

 
Discharge Instructions:
You were hospitalized at ___ for worsening depression. 
 
-Please follow up with all outpatient appointments as listed - 
take this discharge paperwork to your appointments.
-Please continue all medications as directed.
-Please avoid abusing alcohol and any drugs--whether 
prescription drugs or illegal drugs--as this can further worsen 
your medical and psychiatric illnesses.
-Please contact your outpatient psychiatrist or other providers 
if you have any concerns.
-Please call ___ or go to your nearest emergency room if you 
feel unsafe in any way and are unable to immediately reach your 
health care providers.
 
It was a pleasure to have worked with you, and we wish you the 
best of health.
 
Followup Instructions:
___