Name:  ___                   Unit No:   ___
 
Admission Date:  ___              Discharge Date:   ___
 
Date of Birth:  ___             Sex:   M
 
Service: SURGERY
 
Allergies: 
Penicillins
 
Attending: ___.
 
Chief Complaint:
Morbid obesity
 
Major Surgical or Invasive Procedure:
___: laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy

 
History of Present Illness:
___ has class III morbid obesity with weight of 333.2 pounds 
as of ___ with his initial screen weight of 338.1 pounds on 
___, height 72 inches and BMI of 45.2.  His previous weight 
loss efforts have included Weight Watchers, Diet Workshop and 
the ___ diet losing up to 35 pounds but these attempts  hat 
failed to produce significant and/or lasting results.  He has 
not taken prescription weight loss medications or use 
over-the-counter ephedra-containing appetite suppressants/herbal 
supplements.  He stated that his lowest adult weight was 190 
pounds and his highest weight was initial screen weight of 338 
pounds.  He stated that he has been struggling with weight since 
he was in college and cites as factors contributing to his 
excess weight genetics, large portions, late-night eating, 
emotional eating weekly, convenience eating, border, stressful 
eating, too many carbohydrates and saturated fats as well as 
lack of exercise.  He denied history of eating disorders and he 
denied binge eating.  He does not have a clinical diagnosis of 
depression and he has not been seen by a therapist nor has he 
been hospitalized for mental health issues and he is not on any 
psychotropic medications.

 
Past Medical History:
1)  obstructive sleep apnea on CPAP
2)  hemochromatosis
3)  hepatic steatosis by ultrasound study
4)  vitamin D deficiency
5)  hyperuricemia
6)  history of childhood asthma

His surgical history includes:

1)  right knee meniscus tear repair in ___
2)  tonsillectomy at the age of ___

 
Social History:
___
Family History:
His family history is noted for both parents living father with 
history of prostate CA; mother with heart disease, diabetes and 
obesity; sister age ___ with obesity.

 
Physical Exam:
T 98.5 BP 119/72 P 74 RR ___ Ra  
General: no acute distress
Cardiac: regular rate and rhythm, no murmurs, NL S1,S2
Respiratory: clear to auscultation, bilaterally; no respiratory 
distress
Abdomen: soft, appropriate ___ tenderness without 
rebound tenderness or guarding; abdominal lap sites with 
steri-strips, no periwound erythema or drainage
Ext: no lower extremity edema or drainage, bilaterally
 
Pertinent Results:
___ 03:50AM BLOOD Hct-41.8
___ 10:03AM BLOOD Hct-46.0
 
Brief Hospital Course:
The patient presented to pre-op on ___. Patient was 
evaluated by anaesthesia.   The patient was taken to the 
operating room for a laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy for 
obesity. There were no adverse events in the operating room; 
please see the operative note for details. Pt was extubated, 
taken to the PACU until stable, then transferred to the ward for 
observation.  
 Neuro: The patient was alert and oriented throughout 
hospitalization; pain was initially managed with a PCA. Pain was 
very well controlled. The patient was then transitioned to 
liquid oral pain medication once tolerating a stage 3 diet.  
 CV: The patient remained stable from a cardiovascular 
standpoint; vital signs were routinely monitored.  
 Pulmonary: The patient remained stable from a pulmonary 
standpoint; vital signs were routinely monitored. Good pulmonary 
toilet, early ambulation and incentive spirometry were 
encouraged throughout hospitalization.  
 GI/GU/FEN: The patient was initially kept NPO. Afterwards, the 
patient was started on a stage 1 bariatric diet, which the 
patient tolerated well. Subsequently, the patient was advanced 
to stage 2, and then stage 3 diet which the patient was 
tolerating on day of discharge.  
 ID: The patient's fever curves were closely watched for signs 
of infection, of which there were none.  He received intravenous 
clindamycin for 24 hours perioperatively.  Of note, the patient 
developed a rash with itching on post-operative day 1 of unclear 
etiology.  He received IV diphenhydramine x 1 on POD2 and had 
reported that the itching and rash were improved overall 
compared with the previous day.  
 HEME: The patient's blood counts were closely watched for signs 
of bleeding, of which there were none.  
 Prophylaxis: The patient received subcutaneous heparin and ___ 
dyne boots were used during this stay and was encouraged to get 
up and ambulate as early as possible.  
 At the time of discharge, the patient was doing well, afebrile 
and hemodynamically stable. The patient was tolerating a 
bariatric stage 3 diet, ambulating, voiding without assistance, 
and pain was well controlled. The patient received discharge 
teaching and follow-up instructions with understanding 
verbalized and agreement with the discharge plan.  

 
Medications on Admission:
The Preadmission Medication list may be inaccurate and requires 
futher investigation.
1. Multivitamins 1 TAB PO DAILY 
2. Ibuprofen 600 mg PO Q8H:PRN Pain - Mild 
3. Cetirizine 10 mg PO DAILY:PRN allergy symptoms 

 
Discharge Medications:
1.  Acetaminophen (Liquid) 650 mg PO Q6H:PRN Pain - Mild 
RX *acetaminophen 650 mg/20.3 mL 20 ml by mouth every six (6) 
hours Disp #*300 Milliliter Refills:*0 
2.  Docusate Sodium (Liquid) 100 mg PO BID:PRN Constipation - 
First Line 
RX *docusate sodium 50 mg/5 mL 10 ml by mouth twice a day Disp 
#*200 Milliliter Refills:*0 
3.  Famotidine 20 mg PO BID 
RX *famotidine 20 mg 1 tablet(s) by mouth twice a day Disp #*30 
Tablet Refills:*0 
4.  OxycoDONE Liquid 5 mg PO Q4H:PRN Pain - Moderate 
RX *oxycodone 5 mg/5 mL 5 ml by mouth every four (4) hours 
Refills:*0 
5.  Simethicone 40-80 mg PO QID:PRN Gas  
6.  Cetirizine 10 mg PO DAILY:PRN allergy symptoms  
7.  Multivitamins 1 TAB PO DAILY  

 
Discharge Disposition:
Home
 
Discharge Diagnosis:
Morbid obesity

 
Discharge Condition:
Mental Status: Clear and coherent.
Level of Consciousness: Alert and interactive.
Activity Status: Ambulatory - Independent.

 
Discharge Instructions:
Dear Mr. ___,

You have undergone a laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy, recovered 
in the hospital and are now preparing for discharge to home with 
the following instructions:
Discharge Instructions: Please call your surgeon or return to 
the Emergency Department if you develop a fever greater than 101 
F, shaking chills, chest pain, difficulty breathing, pain with 
breathing, cough, a rapid heartbeat, dizziness, severe abdominal 
pain, pain unrelieved by your pain medication, a change in the 
nature or severity of your pain, severe nausea, vomiting, 
abdominal bloating, severe diarrhea, inability to eat or drink, 
foul smelling or colorful drainage from your incisions, redness, 
swelling from your incisions, or any other symptoms which are 
concerning to you.

Diet: Stay on Stage III diet until your follow up appointment; 
please refer to your work book for detailed instructions. Do not 
self- advance your diet and avoid drinking with a straw or 
chewing gum. To avoid dehydration, remember to sip small amounts 
of fluid frequently throughout the day to reach a goal of 
approximately ___ mL per day. Please note the following signs 
of dehydration: dry mouth, rapid heartbeat, feeling dizzy or 
faint, dark colored urine, infrequent urination. 

Medication Instructions:
Please refer to the medication list provided with your discharge 
paperwork for detailed instruction regarding your home and newly 
prescribed medications.  
Some of the new medications you will be taking include:
1.  Pain medication: You will receive a prescription for liquid 
oxycodone, an opioid pain medication.  This medication will make 
you drowsy and impair your ability to drive a motor vehicle or 
operate machinery safely. You MUST refrain from such activities 
while taking these medications. You may also take acetaminophen 
(Tylenol) for pain management; do not exceed 4000 mg per 24 hour 
period.
2. Constipation: This is a common side effect of opioid pain 
medication.  If you experience constipation, please reduce or 
eliminate opioid pain medication.  You may trial 2 ounces of 
light prune juice and/or a stool softener (i.e. crushed docusate 
sodium tablets), twice daily until you resume a normal bowel 
pattern.  Please stop taking this medication if you develop 
loose stools. Please do not begin taking laxatives including 
until you have discussed it with your nurse or surgeon.
3. Antacids: You will be taking famotidine tablets, 20 mg twice 
daily, for one month. This medicine reduces stomach acid 
production. Please crush.
4. You must not use NSAIDS (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory 
drugs). Examples include, but are not limited to Aleve, 
Arthrotec, aspirin, Bufferin, diclofenac, Ecotrin, etodolac, 
ibuprofen, Indocin, indomethacin, Feldene, ketorolac, 
meclofenamate, meloxicam, Midol, Motrin, nambumetone, Naprosyn, 
Naproxen, Nuprin, oxaprozin, Piroxicam, Relafen, Toradol and 
Voltaren. These agents may cause bleeding and ulcers in your 
digestive system. If you are unclear whether a medication is 
considered an NSAID, please ask call your nurse or ask your 
pharmacist.
5.  Vitamins/ minerals: You may resume a chewable multivitamin, 
however, please discuss when to resume additional vitamin and 
mineral supplements with your bariatric dietitian.

Activity:
You should continue walking frequently throughout the day right 
after surgery; you may climb stairs.  
You may resume moderate exercise at your discretion, but avoid 
performing abdominal exercises or lifting items greater than10 
to 15 pounds for six weeks.

Wound Care:
You may remove any remaining gauze from over your incisions.  
You will have thin paper strips (Steri-Strips) over your 
incision; please, remove any remaining Steri-Strip seven to 10 
days after surgery.   
You may shower 48 hours following your surgery; avoid scrubbing 
your incisions and gently pat them dry.  Avoid tub baths or 
swimming until cleared by your surgeon. 
If there is clear drainage from your incisions, cover with 
clean, dry gauze. 
Please call the doctor if you have increased pain, swelling, 
redness, cloudy, bloody or foul smelling drainage from the 
incision sites. 
Avoid direct sun exposure to the incision area for up to 24 
months.
Do not use any ointments on the incision unless you were told 
otherwise.

 
Followup Instructions:
___