Name:  ___                  Unit No:   ___
 
Admission Date:  ___              Discharge Date:   ___
 
Date of Birth:  ___             Sex:   M
 
Service: NEUROLOGY
 
Allergies: 
No Known Allergies / Adverse Drug Reactions
 
Attending: ___.
 
Chief Complaint:
recurrent seizures
 
Major Surgical or Invasive Procedure:
None

 
History of Present Illness:
This is a ___ M with a history notable for previous episodes of
feeling surreal and disoriented thought to be complex partial
seizures who presents to the ED today with his family following 
a
series of prolonged events that continued to recur in spite of
multiple doses of PO ativan. Patient reported that he was going
in and out of these episodes during the interview, and so much 
of
the history was available through wife. 
 
His wife reports that he has been more stressed lately; there 
has
been some family turmoil recently with his son's girlfriend
filing a restraining order against his son. One day prior to
presentation, they returned from a long trip for a wedding in
___ and returned on ___ afternoon. 

He awoke this morning at about 530AM to report to his wife that
he was experiencing "one of those episodes". It apparently
improved by itself. They went on a long walk together. He
returned at around 7am, and then once again he went into one of
his spells. He has significantly difficulty describing it: he
reports feeling "surreal", "disoriented". He experienced a 
bitter
smell. During the episode, he was quite unstable on his feet and
his questions were not making any sense. His speech was perhaps 
a
bit slurred. He was in this state between 7am and 745am, during
which point, he reported to his wife that he used the bathroom
and fell off the toilet, but was able to climb back on. He was
able to shower. They deny any oral or hand automatisms durnig 
the
episode. They confirm that he was able to report when he was
feeling this way. 

She felt that the episode had gone on for long enough, so he 
took
2 pills of his wife's ativan (0.5mg each). He felt better and
back to himself. Then, he apparently went back into his 
"seizure"
like state at about 815, and ativan once again corrected his
sensation. This happened twice more over the course of the next
hour, following which his wife decided that it was time to bring
him to the ED. A total of 3mg PO ativan had been given. 

While waiting to be seen in the ED, the patient was apparently
asking about his car getting fixed, which didn't make any sense
to the wife because both of their cars are just fine.
 
Past Medical History:
BPH, hypertension and previous
traumatic lumbar compression fractures (the patient himself 
noted
no previous medical issues). He has no known medication
allergies, and is listed as only taking doxazosin PRN QHS for
obstructive urinary symptoms.
 
Social History:
___
Family History:
Family Hx: Notable for many family members with cardiac disease. 

No history of seizure or other neurologic disease in other 
family
members.

 
Physical Exam:
V/s were 97.9, HR 64, BP 137/67, RR 18, 98%.
He appeared his stated age and was not in any significant
distress. He mostly seemed confused and dazed and often looked 
at
his wife for support when I asked pointed questions. Neck was
supple. Chest examination identified clear lungs and regular
heart sounds. Belly was soft. Lower extremities were without
edema. No rashes or tattoos were noted. 

Neurologically, he was awake, alert and responded with a delayed
reaction time. He knew that it was ___ and ___, but did
not know the name of the hospital or what part of the hospital 
he
was in. He had difficulty providing a cohesive history. He could
recall the ___ backwards. He registered ___ objects but recalled
___ and didn't remember that he needed to remember those words.
Calculation was brisk and accurate. Naming, reading, language 
and
speech were all normal. No visual neglect or apraxia noted. 

Pupils were round, equal and reactive to light, visual felds 
were
full. Eye movements were normal. Face was symmetric without
facial droop. Tongue was midline and his palate elevated
symmetrically. Facial sensation was intact to light touch. Motor
examination identified normal tone and bulk throughout without
pronator drift, tremors, asterixis or myoclonus. Confrontation
testing identified ___ strength in all major muscle groups.
Reflexes were diminished in the upper extremities and normal in
the lower extremities with mute toes bilaterally. Sensation was
intact to light touch throughout.
 
Finger-nose testing identified no tremor or dysmetria. Romberg
was negative, and a short gait evaluation identified no obvious
ataxia or falls. 

 
Pertinent Results:
EEG:
FINDINGS: 
CONTINUOUS EEG RECORDING: Began at 31 minutes after midnight on 
___ and 
continued through 7:00 on the morning of ___. From 
the beginning, 
it showed a normal and well-formed posterior alpha frequency 
background at 
about 11 Hz during wakefulness. There were no areas of prominent 
focal 
slowing. 
SPIKE DETECTION PROGRAMS: Showed no clearly epileptiform 
features. 
SEIZURE DETECTION PROGRAMS: Showed no electrographic seizures. 
PUSHBUTTON ACTIVATIONS: There were none. Though the patient did 
not activate 
the system, he later recalled an episode at "about 6:05" on the 
morning of ___ 
___. On review of the continuous recording from this time, 
there was the 
sudden and new appearance of very rhythmic moderate voltage 6 Hz 
activity with 
mildly sharp features seen broadly over the left hemisphere 
(with no more 
precise localization) with some reflection to the right lasting 
about 30 
seconds. On video, the patient was sitting on a cobweb out of 
his bed and got 
up and got back into bed without apparent difficulty, if a bit 
slowly. He was 
speaking with his wife at the time. He reported that he had some 
of the 
unusual ___ or other feelings he had had several times in 
the previous 
day. 
SLEEP: The patient progressed from wakefulness to sleep at 
appropriate times 
with no additional findings. 
CARDIAC MONITOR: Showed a generally regular rhythm. 
IMPRESSION: This telemetry captured no pushbutton activations. 
Also, the 
recording showed a normal background in wakefulness and sleep. 
There was a 
single episode reported by the patient of some mild feeling 
similar to the 
symptoms that led to his admission. At that time, there was 
rhythmic 6 Hz 
activity primarily over the left hemisphere with some sharp 
components 
appearing very likely to indicate a lateralized electrographic 
seizure. There 
was no definite disturbance in the patient's behavior as 
assessed by video 
recording at the time. At other times, there were no 
epileptiform features. 

CT head:
TECHNIQUE:  Axial MDCT images were obtained through the brain 
without the 
administration of IV contrast.  Coronal and sagittal reformats 
as well as 
axial bone algorithm reconstructed images were acquired.   
  
FINDINGS: Motion artifact limits the study. There is no evidence 
of acute 
intracranial hemorrhage, edema, mass effect, or large vascular 
territory 
infarction.  Ventricles and sulci are mildly prominent, 
consistent with 
age-related atrophy. A small hypodensity in the anterior limb of 
the right 
internal capsule may represent a chronic lacunar infarct. The 
basal cisterns 
appear patent, and there is preservation of gray-white matter 
differentiation. 
  
  
There is no fracture. A left maxillary retention cyst is noted. 
The paranasal 
sinuses, mastoid air cells, and middle ear cavities are 
unremarkable. The 
globes are unremarkable.   
  
IMPRESSION: No acute intracranial process.  

 
Brief Hospital Course:
Mr. ___ was admitted to the epilepsy service for spells 
concerning for seizures. Continuous video EEG showed 6 Hz 
activity primarily over the left hemisphere with some sharp 
components appearing very likely to indicate a lateralized 
electrographic seizure correlated with one of the patient's 
reported "surreal feeling." The spells abated by the time of 
discharge and the patient did not experience any convulsive 
activity throughout stay. Because these seizures have occurred 
only every ___ years or so, the decision was made to refrain from 
starting any daily anti-epileptic drugs. He was given a 
prescription for ativan to take when these feelings arise in 
order to prevent more severe convulsive events, as he had been 
doing previously. He will follow up with his PCP and call to 
make a follow up appointment with neurology on an as needed 
basis.
 
Medications on Admission:
doxazosin PRN QHS for
obstructive urinary symptoms
 
Discharge Medications:
1. Lorazepam 1 mg PO DAILY:PRN seizure 
Take as needed. ___ repeat once after 15 minutes. Do not drive 
after taking. 
RX *lorazepam 1 mg 1 tablet by mouth daily Disp #*30 Tablet 
Refills:*1
2. doxazosin PRN QHS for obstructive urinary symptoms
 
Discharge Disposition:
Home
 
Discharge Diagnosis:
PRIMARY DIAGNOSIS: Seizures

 
Discharge Condition:
Mental Status: Clear and coherent.
Level of Consciousness: Alert and interactive.
Activity Status: Ambulatory - Independent.
Neurologic Exam: No neurologic deficits.

 
Discharge Instructions:
Dear Mr. ___,

You were admitted to the Epilepsy service at ___ for spells 
concerning for seizures. We monitored you on continuous EEG. 
There was one very brief electrographic seizure noted on your 
EEG monitoring that correlated with your symptoms. However, 
these episodes are only occurring very rarely, so as we 
discussed a seizure maintenance medication may not be necessary.

For your medications:
We will prescribe LORAZEPAM 1 MG to be taken as needed if you 
develop any of your spells to help stop them. If you need a 
refill, please contact Dr. ___ office.

It was a pleasure taking care of you during this hospital stay.
 
Followup Instructions:
___