Name:  ___                 Unit No:   ___
 
Admission Date:  ___              Discharge Date:   ___
 
Date of Birth:  ___             Sex:   M
 
Service: SURGERY
 
Allergies: 
No Known Allergies / Adverse Drug Reactions
 
Attending: ___.
 
Chief Complaint:
Morbid obesity
 
Major Surgical or Invasive Procedure:
Laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy
 
History of Present Illness:
Mr. ___ presented to hospital for an elective 
laparoscopic gastric sleeve
 
Past Medical History:
Past medical history: 
1)Obstructive sleep apnea, not on CPAP
2)Seizure disorder
3)History of atrial flutter with RVR
4)Hyperlipidemia
5)Vitamin D deficiency
6)Hepatic steatosis by ultrasound study.

Past surgical history: None

 
Social History:
___
Family History:
Obesity, multiple 1st degree family members
 
Physical ___:
Physical examination prior to discharge: 
VS: 99.1, 123/79, 100, 18, 96%RA   
GEN: Pleasant in NAD, calm, cooperative.  
HEENT: (-)LAD, mucous membranes moist, trachea midline, EOMI  
CARDIAC: RRR, no murmurs 
CHEST: Clear to auscultation bilaterally, (-) cyanosis.  
ABDOMEN: soft, diffuse tenderness, incision sites are c/d/i 
EXTREMITIES: Warm, well perfused, no edema
NEURO: AA&O x 3
 
Pertinent Results:
___ 08:02PM   HCT-41.7
 
Brief Hospital Course:
The patient presented to pre-op on ___. Patient was 
evaluated by anaesthesia. The patient was taken to the operating 
room for a laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy for obesity. There 
were no adverse events in the operating room; please see the 
operative note for details. Pt was extubated, taken to the PACU 
until stable, then transferred to the ward for observation. 
 
Neuro: The patient was alert and oriented throughout 
hospitalization; pain was initially managed with a PCA. Pain was 
very well controlled. The patient was then transitioned to 
crushed oral pain medication once tolerating a stage 3 diet.  

CV: The patient remained stable from a cardiovascular 
standpoint; vital signs were routinely monitored.  
Pulmonary: The patient remained stable from a pulmonary 
standpoint; vital signs were routinely monitored. Good pulmonary 
toilet, early ambulation and incentive spirometry were 
encouraged throughout hospitalization.  
GI/GU/FEN: The patient was initially kept NPO. Afterwards, the 
patient was started on a stage 1 bariatric diet, which the 
patient tolerated well. Subsequently, the patient was advanced 
to stage 2, and then stage 3 diet which the patient was 
tolerating on day of discharge.  
ID: The patient's fever curves were closely watched for signs of 
infection, of which there were none.  
HEME: The patient's blood counts were closely watched for signs 
of bleeding, of which there were none.  
Prophylaxis: The patient received subcutaneous heparin and ___ 
dyne boots were used during this stay and was encouraged to get 
up and ambulate as early as possible.  
At the time of discharge, the patient was doing well, afebrile 
and hemodynamically stable. The patient was tolerating a 
bariatric stage 3 diet, ambulating, voiding without assistance, 
and pain was well controlled. The patient received discharge 
teaching and follow-up instructions with understanding 
verbalized and agreement with the discharge plan.  

 
Medications on Admission:
lamotrigine 100 mg tablet BID 
oxcarbazepine 600 mg tablet BID
vitamin D3 supplement
 
Discharge Medications:
1.  Acetaminophen (Liquid) 650 mg PO Q4H:PRN Pain - Moderate 
  Reason for PRN duplicate override: Alternating agents for 
similar severity 
2.  OxycoDONE Liquid 5 mg PO Q4H:PRN Pain - Moderate 
RX *oxycodone 5 mg/5 mL 5 ml by mouth Q4hrs Disp #*150 
Milliliter Refills:*0 
3.  LamoTRIgine 100 mg PO BID  
4.  OXcarbazepine 600 mg PO BID  

 
Discharge Disposition:
Home
 
Discharge Diagnosis:
Morbid obesity
 
Discharge Condition:
Mental Status: Clear and coherent.
Level of Consciousness: Alert and interactive.
Activity Status: Ambulatory - Independent.

 
Discharge Instructions:
Discharge Instructions: Please call your surgeon or return to 
the Emergency Department if you develop a fever greater than 101 
F, shaking chills, chest pain, difficulty breathing, pain with 
breathing, cough, a rapid heartbeat, dizziness, severe abdominal 
pain, pain unrelieved by your pain medication, a change in the 
nature or severity of your pain, severe nausea, vomiting, 
abdominal bloating, severe diarrhea, inability to eat or drink, 
foul smelling or colorful drainage from your incisions, redness, 
swelling from your incisions, or any other symptoms which are 
concerning to you.
Diet: Stay on Stage III diet until your follow up appointment; 
please refer to your work book for detailed instructions. Do not 
self- advance your diet and avoid drinking with a straw or 
chewing gum. To avoid dehydration, remember to sip small amounts 
of fluid frequently throughout the day to reach a goal of 
approximately ___ mL per day. Please note the following signs 
of dehydration: dry mouth, rapid heartbeat, feeling dizzy or 
faint, dark colored urine, infrequent urination. 

Medication Instructions:
Please refer to the medication list provided with your discharge 
paperwork for detailed instruction regarding your home and newly 
prescribed medications. 
Some of the new medications you will be taking include:
1. Pain medication: You will receive a prescription for liquid 
oxycodone, an opioid pain medication. This medication will make 
you drowsy and impair your ability to drive a motor vehicle or 
operate machinery safely. You MUST refrain from such activities 
while taking these medications. You may also take acetaminophen 
(Tylenol) for pain management; do not exceed 4000 mg per 24 hour 
period.
2. Constipation: This is a common side effect of opioid pain 
medication. If you experience constipation, please reduce or 
eliminate opioid pain medication. You may trial 2 ounces of 
light prune juice and/or a stool softener (i.e. crushed docusate 
sodium tablets), twice ___ until you resume a normal bowel 
pattern. Please stop taking this medication if you develop loose 
stools. Please do not begin taking laxatives including until you 
have discussed it with your nurse or surgeon.
3. Antacids: You should continue taking your omeprazole, as you 
were previously. This medicine reduces stomach acid production. 
Please crush these into your stage 3 diet. 
4. You must not use NSAIDS (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory 
drugs). Examples include, but are not limited to Aleve, 
Arthrotec, aspirin, Bufferin, diclofenac, Ecotrin, etodolac, 
ibuprofen, Indocin, indomethacin, Feldene, ketorolac, 
meclofenamate, meloxicam, Midol, Motrin, nambumetone, Naprosyn, 
Naproxen, Nuprin, oxaprozin, Piroxicam, Relafen, Toradol and 
Voltaren. These agents may cause bleeding and ulcers in your 
digestive system. If you are unclear whether a medication is 
considered an NSAID, please ask call your nurse or ask your 
pharmacist.
5. Vitamins/ minerals: You may resume a chewable multivitamin, 
however, please discuss when to resume additional vitamin and 
mineral supplements with your bariatric dietitian.

Activity:
You should continue walking frequently throughout the day right 
after surgery; you may climb stairs. 
You may resume moderate exercise at your discretion, but avoid 
performing abdominal exercises or lifting items greater than10 
to 15 pounds for six weeks.
Wound Care:
You may remove any remaining gauze from over your incisions. You 
will have thin paper strips (Steri-Strips) over your incision; 
please, remove any remaining Steri-Strip seven to 10 days after 
surgery. 
You may shower 48 hours following your surgery; avoid scrubbing 
your incisions and gently pat them dry. Avoid tub baths or 
swimming until cleared by your surgeon. 
If there is clear drainage from your incisions, cover with 
clean, dry gauze. 
Please call the doctor if you have increased pain, swelling, 
redness, cloudy, bloody or foul smelling drainage from the 
incision sites. 
Avoid direct sun exposure to the incision area for up to 24 
months.
Do not use any ointments on the incision unless you were told 
otherwise.
 
Followup Instructions:
___