Name:  ___                   Unit No:   ___
 
Admission Date:  ___              Discharge Date:   ___
 
Date of Birth:  ___             Sex:   F
 
Service: ORTHOPAEDICS
 
Allergies: 
Imitrex / Topamax / Crestor / Lescol / Niacin / Simvastatin / 
Pravastatin / atorvastatin / rizatriptan
 
Attending: ___.
 
Chief Complaint:
Right shoulder pain
 
Major Surgical or Invasive Procedure:
Conversion of right shoulder hemiarthroplasty to right reverse 
total shoulder arthroplasty

 
History of Present Illness:
___ y/o female who underwent a cemented right shoulder 
hemiarthroplasty in ___ for a right proximal humerus fracture 
at ___. 

She went on to develop post-traumatic arthropathy and elected to 
proceed with a conversion to a right reverse total shoulder 
arthroplasty. 
 
Past Medical History:
1. Dyslipidemia
2. Asthma- Mild intermittent
 
Social History:
___
Family History:
Non-contributory for any significant musculoskeletal disease
 
Physical Exam:
Afebrile
Vital signs are stable
Pain controlled
Xray right shoulder single view shows no fracture
Right shoulder dressing is clean and dry
She has a 2+ radial pulse symmetric to that of the left. 
The fingers are warm to touch with good capillary refill. 
 
Brief Hospital Course:
The patient was admitted to the Orthopaedic Sports Medicine 
Service for advanced right post-traumatic glenohumeral 
arthropathy after cemented right shoulder hemiarthroplasty.  The 
patient was taken to the OR and underwent a conversion to a 
right reverse total shoulder arthroplasty. Please see operative 
report for full details. The patient tolerated the procedure 
without difficulty and was transferred to the PACU in stable 
condition.  

Postoperatively, pain was controlled with an interscalene nerve 
block, with transition to oral pain medication as tolerated. 
Perioperative antibiotics and Aspirin for DVT prophylaxis were 
given as per routine. 
  
 At discharge, vital signs are stable, the patient is afebrile, 
tolerating a regular diet, voiding spontaneously.
  
 The patient is discharged home with visiting services in stable 
condition.  Patient given detailed precautionary instructions 
and instructions for the appropriate follow up care. 

 
 
Medications on Admission:
The Preadmission Medication list is accurate and complete.
1. Ibuprofen 600 mg PO Q8H:PRN Pain - Moderate 
2. Aspirin 81 mg PO DAILY 
3. Vitamin B Complex 1 CAP PO DAILY 

 
Discharge Medications:
1.  Acetaminophen 1000 mg PO Q8H  
2.  Docusate Sodium 100 mg PO BID 
Please use as needed while taking narcotic pain medication.   
3.  OxyCODONE (Immediate Release) 2.5-5 mg PO Q3H:PRN pain  
4.  Aspirin 81 mg PO DAILY  
5.  Vitamin B Complex 1 CAP PO DAILY  
6. HELD- Ibuprofen 600 mg PO Q8H:PRN Pain - Moderate  This 
medication was held. Do not restart Ibuprofen until 6 weeks 
after surgery. 

 
Discharge Disposition:
Home with Service
 
Discharge Diagnosis:
Post-traumatic right glenohumeral arthropathy

 
Discharge Condition:
Mental Status: Clear and coherent.
Level of Consciousness: Alert and interactive.
Activity Status: Ambulatory - Independent.

 
Discharge Instructions:
Reverse Total Shoulder Arthroplasty
 Post-Operative Instructions
(with/without Biceps Tenodesis)

Medications
You will be given a prescription for pain medicine.  The pain 
medication is a codeine derivative and should be taken as 
directed.  

Please take one full strength aspirin (325 mg) each day for six 
weeks to decrease the risk of having a complication related to a 
blood clot.

Please take a stool softener, like Colace (Docusate Sodium 
100mg), twice a day while taking narcotics to prevent 
constipation.

Dressing
Leave your dressing on for 48 hours after your surgery.  After 
48 hours, you may remove your dressing.  LEAVE THE TAPE STRIPS 
OVER YOUR INCISIONS.  These will stay on for 1.5 to 2 weeks and 
will peel off slowly.

Showering
You may shower 72 hours after your surgery and get your 
incisions wet.  Do NOT immerse in a tub or pool for 7 – 10 days 
to avoid excessive scarring and risk of infection.

When you shower, let your arm hang at your side. Do NOT raise or 
lift your arm.  

To wash under your arm, lean forward carefully and let your arm 
hang.  Using your other hand, wash under your operative arm.  Do 
NOT scrub the incision.  

When you are done washing, stand up and let your arm hang at 
your side.  

Pat yourself dry and put your sling on.

Ice Packs
Keep Ice Packs on at all times exchanging every hour while 
awake.  Icing is very important to decrease swelling and pain 
and improve mobility.  After 24 hours, continue to use the cuff 
3 – 4 times a day, 15 – 20 minutes each time to keep swelling to 
a minimum.

Activity
•Take it easy.
•Wear your sling for comfort and safety. 
•Keep your arm at your side at ALL TIMES – no reaching, 
grabbing or pulling with your operative arm.

When to Contact Us
If you experience severe pain that your pain medication does not 
help, please let us know.

If you have a temperature over 101.5º, please contact our office 
at ___.

Physical Therapy:
NON-WEIGHT BEARING RIGHT UPPER EXTREMITY x 6 WEEKS
Treatments Frequency:
Dressing changes daily as needed for persistent wound drainage 
beginning on ___.

Assessment of appropriate post operative pain control

Education of effective home safety strategies. 
 
Followup Instructions:
___