Name:  ___           Unit No:   ___
 
Admission Date:  ___              Discharge Date:   ___
 
Date of Birth:  ___             Sex:   F
 
Service: PSYCHIATRY
 
Allergies: 
No Known Allergies / Adverse Drug Reactions
 
Attending: ___.
 
Chief Complaint:
"I felt like things weren't going to get better."
 
Major Surgical or Invasive Procedure:
None

 
History of Present Illness:
Per EMS report:
___ yo F found a/o x4 sitting reporting suicide attempt. States 
she took at least 20 sertraline and a handful of ibuprofen. 
Vomit noted next to patient. Patient denies HI. Denies any 
symptoms and taken to hospital with no change in condition." 
.
Per Dr. ___ ___ ED Initial Psychiatry Consult note:
"The patient states that she has struggled with depression since 
her ___ year of highschool- she was connected to psychiatric 
care after ingesting a bottle of ibuprofen following an "really, 
really bad" argument with her parents.  On that occasion, much 
like this one, she did not reach out for help, but only received 
medical attention when her mother found her unconscious in the 
bathroom. She states that she stayed in the hospital for 8 hours 
after which she was connected to outpatient treatment with a 
psychiatrist and therapist.  She states that she previously saw 
her therapist once weekly and found this helpful.
.
The patient says that she has been trialed on a few 
antidepressants in the past, including Lexapro and Wellbutrin in 
addition to Zoloft.  She says the Lexapro "worked great" 
initially but lost its effectiveness after some time, and states 
that she could not tolerate the Wellbutrin secondary to anxiety. 
She believes that the Zoloft, begun a year or so ago, may have 
been helpful and stopped her medication prior to moving to 
___ for school as she was feeling better ("I know it was a 
stupid thing to do").  She states that her depression began to 
worsen following her move, her support network largely home in 
___, noting that she began increasingly to experience 
numbness, anhedonia, lack of motivation, impaired concentration, 
poor appetite, and hypersomnia.  She states that she reinitiated 
sertraline two months ago but does not believe she's noticed 
significant improvement in her symptoms.  
.
She says that she finds it difficult to get out of bed, and 
wants desperately to be able to spend time with her friends, 
noting that she no longer takes pleasure in the things she used 
to. She is not worried for her academic status, stating she does 
well in school, though she notes that she struggles to focus on 
and complete her coursework when her classmates "seem to breeze 
right through it".  Though diagnosed with ADHD she is not 
prescribed stimulants having been told that antidepressants 
would treat both conditions.  
.
She denies that she had experienced suicidal ideation for "a 
long time, years" (referring to the attempt described above) but 
developed suicidal thoughts acutely this evening in realizing 
how alone and how desperate she felt.  She states that at 
approximately 3 AM, unable to sleep, believing her roommate and 
roommate's girlfriend to be asleep, she reached for the 
medications kept in a drawer at her bedside, went into the 
bathroom, and swallowed 40-50 tablets of sertraline 100 mg and 
"a handful" of ibuprofen which she quickly vomited up.  She did 
not attempt to contact friends or family or notify her 
roommates.  Her roommate's girlfriend knocked on the door saying 
"I heard you take the pill bottle- are you OK?" to which she 
replied she needed help, EMS alerted.  She currently states that 
she is glad that she lived as it "felt nice" to see how much her 
friends and her brother cared for her; she states that she could 
never possibly attempt suicide in the future given the pain she 
recognizes that she caused them."
.
In the ED, patient received a GI cocktail of pantoprazole, 
Maalox, donnatal, and lidocaine. She also received one dose of 
Ativan 0.5mg PRN anxiety. She was medically cleared.

 
Past Medical History:
Denies past medical history
 
Social History:
___
Family History:
- Father and paternal grandmother with depression, not treated.
- Mother with history of periodic episodes of depression.
 
Physical Exam:
ADMISSION EXAM
.
General:
-HEENT: Normocephalic, atraumatic.  Moist mucous membranes, 
oropharynx clear, supple neck.  No scleral icterus.
-Cardiovascular: tachycardic to 110s, regular, S1/S2 heard, no 
m/r/g
-Pulmonary: No increased work of breathing.  Lungs clear to 
auscultation bilaterally.  No wheezes/rhonchi/rales.
-Abdominal: No distension. Bowel sounds hyperactive. Nontender 
without guarding.
-Extremities: Warm and well-perfused.  No edema of the limbs.
-Skin: 2cm circular scars noted on left forearm consistent with 
old burns
.
Neurological:
-Cranial Nerves:
---I: Olfaction not tested.
---II: PERRL 4 to 2mm, both directly and consentually; brisk 
bilaterally.  VFF to confrontation.
---III, IV, VI: EOMI without nystagmus
---V: Facial sensation intact to light touch in all 
distributions
---VII: No facial droop, facial musculature symmetric and ___ 
strength in upper and lower distributions, bilaterally
---VIII: Hearing intact to finger rub bilaterally
---IX, X: Palate elevates symmetrically
---XI: ___ strength in trapezii and SCM bilaterally
---XII: Tongue protrudes in midline
-Motor: low amplitude tremor with outstretched hands, right > 
left. Normal bulk and tone bilaterally. Strength ___ throughout.
-Sensory: No deficits to fine touch throughout
-DTRs: 2 and symmetrical throughout
-Coordination: Normal finger-nose-finger, with tremor noted.
-Gait: grossly normal.
.
Neuropsychiatric Examination:
-Appearance: Wearing hospital gown, fair grooming and hygiene, 
wearing glasses, appears stated age
-Behavior/Attitude: calm, cooperative
-Mood and Affect: "okay", appears anxious, tearful at times 
appropriate to content
-Thought process: Linear, coherent, no loose associations 
-Thought content: denies current SI/HI, denies AVH, no paranoia
-Judgment and Insight: Limited/Limited
-Cognition:
 -Attention/*Orientation: Alert x oriented x3
 -Memory: ___ word recall
 -Fund of knowledge: Not assessed
 -Calculations: 7 quarters in 1.75
 -Abstraction: Apples/oranges = "fruit"; interpreted "don't cry 
over spilled milk" appropriately
 -Visuospatial: Not assessed
 -Speech: Normal rate, rhythm, prosody 
 -Language: Native ___ speaker

 
Pertinent Results:
-CBC with diff (___): wnl
-BMP (___): bicarb 20*, otherwise wnl
-LFTs (___): wnl; ALT-9, AST-15, AlkPhos-64, TotBili-0.2 
Albumin-4.8
-Lipids (___): wnl; Triglyc-81, HDL-57, CHOL/HD-3.1, 
LDLcalc-101, Cholest-174
-HbA1c (___): 5.1%
-TSH (___): 1.2
-25VitD (___): 22*
-hCG (___): neg
-Serum and urine tox screens (___): neg
-Urinalysis (___): wnl
-Urine culture (___): pan-sensitive E coli

 
Brief Hospital Course:
1. LEGAL & SAFETY:  
On admission, the patient signed a conditional voluntary 
agreement (Section 10 & 11) and remained on that level 
throughout their admission.  They were also placed on 15 minute 
checks status on admission and remained on that level of 
observation throughout while being unit restricted.
.
2. PSYCHIATRIC:
At presentation, patient had recently attempted suicide by 
overdose on medications and reported significant depressive 
symptoms including hopelessness, decreased motivation, 
hypersomnia, decreased concentration, poor appetite, and 
fatigue. Diagnostically her presentation was most consistent 
with recurrent major depressive disorder.
.
Interventions during hospitalization included individual and 
group therapy, milieu, medication management, and aftercare 
planning. We held all serotonergic medications initially due to 
the overdose and symptoms of serotonin toxicity. We later 
reintroduced an antidepressant and chose venlafaxine XR at an 
initial dose of 37.5mg PO based on 2 prior failed trials on 
SSRIs and one failed trial on Wellbutrin. Other than one episode 
of nausea, she appeared to tolerate the venlafaxine well.
.
Over the course of the hospitalization, patient's depressive 
symptoms significantly improved. She demonstrated brighter 
affect, future-oriented viewpoint, and improved sleep. She 
regretted the overdose and expressed a desire to live. On the 
day of discharge she reported similar improvement and again 
denied suicidal ideation. She was discharged on venlafaxine 
37.5mg XR PO with followup appointments for therapy and 
subsequent psychiatric care, school counseling, school re-entry. 
Her next psychiatric provider should consider titrating 
venlafaxine.
.
3. SUBSTANCE USE DISORDERS: n/a
.
4. MEDICAL:
a) Serotonin toxicity: at admission, patient demonstrated signs 
and symptoms suggestive of serotonin toxicity, including nausea, 
tremor, and tachycardia. These symptoms were expected in the 
setting of SSRI overdose and quickly resolved over the next ___ 
hours.
.
b) Vitamin D deficiency: incidentally discovered mild deficiency 
during workup for secondary causes of depression. We initiated 
supplementation with 300mg VitD3 daily and continued this at 
discharge.
.
5. PSYCHOSOCIAL
a) GROUPS/MILIEU:  The patient was encouraged to participate in 
the various groups and milieu therapy opportunities offered by 
the unit. The patient sometimes attended these groups that 
focused on teaching patients various coping skills. The patient 
was visible at times in the milieu and appropriately social with 
peers.
.
b) COLLATERAL CONTACTS & FAMILY INVOLVEMENT: We coordinated 
treatment plan with patient's parents, including conversations 
with patient's mother by phone and in-person family meeting with 
patient's father. Patient's father flew into ___ to spend 
time with patient between discharge and re-entry to ___.
.
c) INTERVENTIONS
- Medications: discontinued sertraline, started venlafaxine XR 
37.5mg PO daily
- Psychotherapeutic Interventions: Individual, group, and milieu 
therapy
- Coordination of aftercare: 
  - Patient did not have outpatient treaters at the time of 
presentation. We arranged for an intake with ___ counseling 
services in ___ with a plan for subsequent psychiatric care 
after keeping two therapy appointments. 
  - We coordinated extensively with ___ to arrange 
followup with student counseling center and re-entry
- Behavioral Interventions: encouraged DBT skills, coping skills
.
INFORMED CONSENT: Venlafaxine
The team discussed the indications for, intended benefits of, 
and possible side effects and risks of starting this medication, 
and risks and benefits of possible alternatives, including not 
taking the medication, with this patient. We discussed the 
patient's right to decide whether to take this medication as 
well as the importance of the patient's actively participating 
in the treatment and discussing any questions about medications 
with the treatment team. The patient appeared able to understand 
and consented to begin the medication.
.
RISK ASSESSMENT & PROGNOSIS
On presentation, the patient was evaluated and felt to be at an 
increased risk of harm to herself based upon the patient's age, 
impulsive suicide attempt, history of past suicide attempt, lack 
of local treaters, and minimal local supports. Their static 
factors at that time included history of suicide attempts, 
chronic mental illness, history of abuse, history of 
self-injurious behavior, family history of mental illness, 
adolescent age, and limited social supports. The modifiable risk 
factors were also addressed, including change in antidepressant 
therapy to address uncontrolled depression, establishing care 
with outpatient providers to address lack of outpatient support, 
coping skills and DBT skills to address impulsivity and limited 
coping, and stabilization in controlled environment during 
period of acutely elevated suicide risk. Finally, the patient is 
being discharged with many protective risk factors, including 
female gender, supportive family, positive therapeutic 
relationship with outpatient providers, no chronic substance 
use, no access to lethal weapons, reality-testing ability.  
Patient demonstrated preserved capacity to engage in a 
meaningful discussion about safety planning in the event that 
thoughts of self-harm or suicide return. Overall, based on the 
totality of our assessment at this time, the patient is not at 
an acutely elevated risk of self-harm nor danger to others. 
.
MODIFIABLE RISK FACTORS: suboptimally controlled mental illness, 
no therapeutic relationship with outpatient providers, social 
withdrawal, decreased self-esteem, limited coping skills
.
PROTECTIVE RISK FACTORS: female gender, supportive family, 
positive therapeutic relationship with outpatient providers, no 
chronic substance use, no access to lethal weapons, 
reality-testing ability

 
Medications on Admission:
The Preadmission Medication list is accurate and complete.
1. Sertraline 100 mg PO DAILY 

 
Discharge Medications:
1.  Lo Loestrin Fe (norethindrone-e.estradiol-iron) 1 mg-10 mcg 
(24)/10 mcg (2) oral DAILY  
2.  Venlafaxine XR 37.5 mg PO DAILY 
RX *venlafaxine 37.5 mg 1 capsule(s) by mouth daily Disp #*30 
Capsule Refills:*0 
3.  Vitamin D 800 UNIT PO DAILY  

 
Discharge Disposition:
Home
 
Discharge Diagnosis:
Major depressive disorder

 
Discharge Condition:
Neurological:
- Station and gait: ambulates independently without assist
- Tone and strength:  moves all 4 extremities antigravity
 
Mental status exam:
- Appearance: Sitting up in hospital bed, appears stated age, 
well-groomed 
- Behavior/Attitude: calm, cooperative, engaged  
- Mood and Affect: 'I'm feeling better'; affect congruent, with 
normal range 
- Thought process: Linear, organized, coherent, no loose 
associations 
- Thought Content: Denies suicidal ideation, intention, or plan; 
denies violent or homicidal ideation; denies auditory or visual 
hallucinations, not acting on internal stimuli
- Judgment and Insight: Fair, Limited

 
Discharge Instructions:
-Please follow up with all outpatient appointments as listed - 
take this discharge paperwork to your appointments.
-Unless a limited duration is specified in the prescription, 
please continue all medications as directed until your 
prescriber tells you to stop or change.
-Please avoid abusing alcohol and any drugs--whether 
prescription drugs or illegal drugs--as this can further worsen 
your medical and psychiatric illnesses.
-Please contact your outpatient psychiatrist or other providers 
if you have any concerns.
-Please call ___ or go to your nearest emergency room if you 
feel unsafe in any way and are unable to immediately reach your 
health care providers.
.
It was a pleasure to have worked with you, and we wish you the 
best of health.
 
Followup Instructions:
___