Physical Exam:
Vitals: 98.1  100  137/86  16  100% RA
General: awake, cooperative, NAD.
HEENT: NC/AT, no scleral icterus noted, MMM, no lesions noted in
oropharynx
Neck: supple, no nuchal rigidity
Pulmonary: breathing comfortably on room air
Cardiac: RRR, nl
Abdomen: soft, NT/ND
Extremities: warm, well perfused
Skin: no rashes or lesions noted

Neurologic:

-Mental Status: Alert, oriented x 3. Able to relate history
without major difficulty but some difficulty with articulating
specific details. Fairly attentive, able to spell "world" 
forward
but initially when asked to then spell it backward spells
"BACKWARD" then when re-prompted spells "world" correctly
backward. Naming intact to high frequency objects. Language is
fluent with intact repetition and comprehension. Normal prosody.
There were no paraphasic errors. Speech was not dysarthric. Able
to follow both midline and appendicular commands. There was no
evidence of apraxia or neglect.

-Cranial Nerves:
II, III, IV, VI:  PERRL 3.5 to 2mm and brisk. EOMI with several
beats of nystagmus on left end gaze which extinguishes, no
nystagmus to right. VFF to confrontation. Fundoscopic exam
deferred (patient in hallway, no ophthalmoscope available).
Endorses binocular diplopia at a distance of about 10 feet in
midline slightly inferomedially; does not clearly worsen to
either side. Improves with monocular vision. No binocular
diplopia with end gaze in either direction. 
V: Facial sensation intact to light touch.
VII: No facial droop, facial musculature symmetric.
VIII: Hearing intact to finger-rub bilaterally.
IX, X: Palate elevates symmetrically.
XI: ___ strength in trapezii and SCM bilaterally.
XII: Tongue protrudes in midline.

-Motor: Normal bulk, tone throughout. No pronator drift
bilaterally.
No adventitious movements, such as tremor, noted. No asterixis
noted.
  Delt Bic Tri WrE FFl FE IO IP Quad Ham TA ___
L  5    ___   ___  5   5    5  5     5     5   5
R  5    ___   ___  5   5    5  5     5     5   5

-Sensory: No deficits to light touch, cold sensation,
proprioception throughout. No extinction to DSS. Graphesthesia
guessed "0" to 6 on the left, 3 correctly on right. 

-DTRs: brisk throughout in bilateral biceps, brachioradialis,
patellae, Achilles. Crossed adductors and prepatellars
bilaterally. No pec jerks, no ___. Plantar response was
flexor bilaterally.

-Coordination: No intention tremor. No dysmetria on FNF or HKS
bilaterally.

-Gait: Good initiation. Somewhat wide based, initially fairly
straight, possibly slightly to the right. When examiner mentions
him veering slightly seems to then veer more to the right.
Romberg initially without significant sway then places self
closer to bed as sways slightly and then sways slightly more but
does not fall.