Mental Status Exam
General: Pleasant and cooperative.
Appearance: Older woman in appropriate clothing with dyed hair
pulled back. Good hygiene. 
Behavior: Good eye contact, slight tremor noted today after eCT.
Speech: Normal rate, tone, and volume.  
Mood/Affect: "good". Affect euthymic. 
Thought Form: Not tangential, no need for redirection.  No loose
associations
Thought content: No hallucinations or delusions apparent.  No
suicidal ideation or concern for harming self or others
Insight and Judgment: Good/Good. Ms. ___ continues to 
endorse
improved mood and hopes to pursue outpatient therapy along with
restarting activities which she has been neglecting due to
depression

Mental Status: Clear and coherent.
Level of Consciousness: Alert and interactive.
Activity Status: Ambulatory - Independent.

PE:
V/S: T 100.3, HR 72, BP 159/57, RR 16, O2 98% on RA
General:NAD, thinning hair
HEENT: Normocephalic. PERRL, EOMI. ___ normal. Oropharynx clear.
Neck: Supple, trachea midline.  No adenopathy or thyromegaly.
Lungs: Clear to auscultation; no crackles or wheezes.
CV: Regular rate and rhythm; no murmurs/rubs/gallops; 2+ pedal
pulses
Abdomen: Soft, nontender, nondistended; no masses or
organomegaly.
Extremities: No clubbing, cyanosis, or edema.
Skin: Warm and dry, no rash or significant lesions.
Neurological:
  *Cranial Nerves-
       I: Not tested
       II: Pupils equally round and reactive to light
bilaterally. Visual fields are full to confrontation.
      III, IV, VI: Extraocular movements intact bilaterally
without
nystagmus.
      V, VII: Facial strength and sensation intact and 
symmetric.
      VIII: Hearing intact to voice.
      IX, X: Palatal elevation symmetrical.
      XI: Sternocleidomastoid and trapezius normal bilaterally.
      XII: Tongue midline without fasciculations.
  *Motor- Normal bulk and tone bilaterally. No abnormal
movements, tremors. Strength full power ___ throughout. No
pronator drift.  
  *Sensation- Intact to light touch
  *Coordination- Normal on finger-nose-finger, rapid alternating
movements; UNABLE to do heel to shin walk. States its always 
been
that way