Pysical Exam on Admission:
VS: T:refused, BP:refused, HR:88, RR:18, O2Sat:99% on RA

General: ___ year old man in NAD. Well-nourished, well-developed.
Appears stated age.
HEENT: Normocephalic, atraumatic. PERRL, EOMI. Oropharynx clear.
Neck: Supple.
Back: No significant deformity.
Lungs: CTA ___. No crackles, wheezes, or rhonchi.
CV: RRR, no murmurs/rubs/gallops. 
Abdomen: +BS, soft, nontender, nondistended. No palpable masses
or organomegaly.
Extremities: No clubbing, cyanosis, or edema.
Skin: No apparent rashes, abrasions, scars, or lesions. 

Neurological:
 Cranial Nerves:
 I: Not tested.
 II: PERRL.
 III, IV, VI: EOMI intact ___ without nystagmus.
 V, VII: Facial strength and sensation intact and symmetric.
 VIII: Hearing intact to finger rub bilaterally.
 IX, X: Palatal elevation symmetrical.
 XI: trapezius normal bilaterally.
 XII: Tongue midline without fasciculations.
 Motor: Normal bulk and tone bilaterally. No abnormal movements,
no tremor. Strength: full power ___ throughout. Coordination:
Normal on finger to nose test. DTRs: patellar 2+ and 
symmetrical.
Sensation: Intact to light touch throughout. 
 Gait: not assessed.

Cognition: 
  Wakefulness/alertness: awake and alert
  Attention: serial 7s to 58 without errors
  Orientation: oriented to person, time, place, situation
  Executive function (go-no go, Luria, trails, FAS): not tested
  Memory: intact to recent and past history, remembered 3 words 
  from yesterday's exam
  Fund of knowledge: consistent with education
  Calculations: $2.25 = "9 quarters"
  Abstraction: "you cant judge a book by its cover" interpreted 
  as "you need to get to know what's on the inside, not judge 
  based on the outside"
  Visuospatial: not assessed
  Speech: normal rate, volume, and tone
  Language: fluent ___ speaker with accent, no paraphasic 
  errors, appropriate to conversation

Mental Status:
 Appearance: ___ year old man, appears his stated age, appears
disheveled unshaved and unkempt hair, wearing hospital gown, no
apparent distress.
 Behavior: Calm, cooperative, slightly guarded, appropriate eye
contact, no psychomotor agitation or retardation
 Mood and Affect: "okay" / slightly constricted, reactive at
times, appropriate to situation, congruent with mood
 Thought Process: linear, coherent, goal-oriented. No LOA.
 Thought Content: denies SI/HI/AH/VH, endorsing delusion of chip
in his head and mistrust of his family
 Judgment and Insight: poor/poor

Physical Exam at Discharge:
Vitals:
T97.7BP:111 / 77HR:92RR:18SpO2:99
 
Mental Status:
-Appearance: man appearing stated age, well groomed, wearing
sweat pants and sweat shirt, in no apparent distress
-Behavior: Sitting up in bed, appropriate eye contact, no
psychomotor agitation notable for bouncing of right leg.
Decreased from yesterday. 
-Attitude: Cooperative, engaged, friendly
-Mood: "I'm feeling better, I know those thoughts I had don't
make sense"
-Affect: Mood-congruent, full range, appropriate to situation.
laughs at appropriate times and discusses his concern for these
thoughts that were not logical
-Speech: Normal rate, volume, and tone
-Thought process: Linear, coherent, goal-oriented, no loose
associations
-Thought Content:
---Safety: Denies SI/HI
---Delusions: No evidence of paranoia, etc. 
---Obsessions/Compulsions: No evidence based on current 
encounter
---Hallucinations: Denies AVH, not appearing to be attending to
internal stimuli
-Insight: Good, recognizes why he was admitted and offers up 
that
those thoughts were abnormal and irrational
-Judgment: Improving

Cognition: 
-Wakefulness/alertness: Awake and alert
-Attention:  Not formally assessed but attentive to interview
-Orientation: Oriented to person, time, place, situation
-Executive function (go-no go, Luria, trails, FAS): Not assessed
-Memory: Not formally assessed but intact to interview
-Language: Native ___ speaker, no paraphasic errors,
appropriate to conversation
- Multiple proverbs were chared with the patient including: 
- Dont judge a book by its cover: "That you shouldnt judge
something by the outside, and that something different could be
underneath." "Also that you shouldnt judge a cover, because
inside you can read between the lines"
- People in glass houses shouldnt throw stones: "that you should
use your strength was fighting with someone and you should not
show your weaknessass like a stone can break the glass"
- Speaking is silver but silence is golden: "That speaking can 
be
good, but slience may be the best thing"