On my my physical examination, vital signs were 98.2, 92,
155/126, 16, 96% RA. In general, patient is a thin gentleman, 
who
is awake, cooperative, pleasant and in no apparent distress. The
patient had a NCAT head without conjunctival icterus. Mucous
membranes were moist and oropharynx is clear of lesions. Neck 
was
supple without masses or thyromegaly. Chest examination revealed
regular heart sounds without murmurs, and lungs were clear to
auscultation bilaterally. Belly was soft without focal
tenderness, and extremities were warm and well perfused. Skin
examination showed no rashes or lesions.  

Neurologically, the patient is awake, alert and oriented x 2 (he
could not tell me today's date). Able to relate history without
difficulty. The translator did not notice any slurred speech,
paraphasias or word finding difficulties. Fluency was judged to
be normal. Pt. was able to name both high and low frequency
objects. Able to read without difficulty. Speech was not
dysarthric. Able to follow both midline and appendicular
commands. 

Cranial nerve examination revealed round, unequal and reactive
pupils. Left was 4mm and right was 3mm and both were briskly
reactive. The difference was equal in dark and light. Full 
visual
fields to confrontation. Extraocular movements were full without
dysconjugate gaze, nystagmus or diplopia per report. There was a
subtle right lower facial droop. Sensation was intact to light
touch and pinprick throughout the face. There was no ptosis
noted. Hearing is intact to finger-rub bilaterally. Palate
elevates symmetrically, and the strength of trapezii and SCMs 
was
___ bilaterally. Tongue was strong bilaterally without atrophy 
or
fasiculations.  

Strength examination showed normal bulk, tone throughout. Left
pronator drift noted. No adventitious movements, such as tremor,
noted. No asterixis noted. Rapid alternating 
 Delt Bic Tri WrE FFl FE IP Quad Ham TA ___   
L 5    5    ___   ___   5   5    5     5    
R 4    5    ___   ___   5   5    5     5  
The sensory examination revealed no deficits to light touch
throughout. He had diminished pinprick all through the right leg
compared to the right. Cold sensation was exaggerated over the
right leg, but vibration was diminished on the right great toe
compared to the left. 

The reflex examination revealed
   Bi Tri ___ Pat Ach  
L  2   2    2     2  2  
R  3   3    3     2  2  
Plantar response: Up on the right, equivocal on the left  

Dysmetria on finger-nose noted on the right but not the left.
Romberg was negative. Testing gait was difficult due to multiple
wires/lines, but preliminary gait evaluation noted some antalgic
gait with limp on the right with ? circumduction of the right
leg.