GENERAL APPEARANCE: Well developed, well nourished, alert and 
cooperative, and appears to be in no acute distress.
HEAD: normocephalic.
EYES: PERRL, EOMI. Fundi normal, vision is grossly intact.
EARS: External auditory canals and tympanic membranes clear, 
hearing grossly intact.
NOSE: No nasal discharge.
THROAT: Oral cavity and pharynx normal. No inflammation, 
swelling, exudate, or lesions. Teeth and gingiva in good general 
condition.
NECK: Neck supple, non-tender without lymphadenopathy, masses or 
thyromegaly.
CARDIAC: Normal S1 and S2. No S3, S4 or murmurs. Rhythm is 
regular. There is no peripheral edema, cyanosis or pallor. 
Extremities are warm and well perfused. Capillary refill is less 
than 2 seconds. No carotid bruits.
LUNGS: Clear to auscultation and percussion without rales, 
rhonchi, wheezing or diminished breath sounds.
ABDOMEN: Positive bowel sounds. Soft, nondistended, nontender. 
No guarding or rebound. No masses.  
MUSKULOSKELETAL: Adequately aligned spine. ROM intact spine and 
extremities. No joint erythema or tenderness. Normal muscular 
development. Normal gait.
BACK: Examination of the spine reveals normal gait and posture, 
no spinal deformity, symmetry of spinal muscles, without 
tenderness, decreased range of motion or muscular spasm.
EXTREMITIES: No significant deformity or joint abnormality. No 
edema. Peripheral pulses intact. No varicosities.
LOWER EXTREMITY: Examination of both feet reveals all toes to be 
normal in size and symmetry, normal range of motion, normal 
sensation with distal capillary filling of less than 2 seconds 
without tenderness, swelling, discoloration, nodules, weakness 
or deformity; examination of both ankles, knees, legs, and hips 
reveals normal range of motion, normal sensation without 
tenderness, swelling, discoloration, crepitus, weakness or 
deformity.
NEUROLOGICAL: CN II-XII intact. Strength and sensation symmetric 
and intact throughout. Reflexes 2+ throughout. Cerebellar 
testing normal.
SKIN: Skin normal color, texture and turgor with no lesions or 
eruptions.