Physical Examination:

General: appears in no acute distress, resting comfortably on 
bed. There is a large amplitude direction- and 
frequency-changing tremor of the trunk and lower extremities 
which suppresses on distraction.
HEENT: NCAT, no oropharyngeal lesions, sclerae anicteric
Neck: Supple
___: RRR, no murmurs
Pulmonary: CTAB
Abdomen: Soft, NT, ND
Extremities: Warm, no edema
Skin: No rashes or lesions

Neurologic Examination:
- Mental Status - Awake, alert, oriented to person, place and 
time. Attention to examiner easily maintained. Recalls a 
coherent history. Speech is fluent with full sentences, intact 
repetition, and intact verbal comprehension. Content of speech 
demonstrates intact naming (high and low frequency) and no 
paraphasias. Normal prosody. No dysarthria. No evidence of 
hemineglect. No left-right agnosia.

- Cranial Nerves - PERRL 3->2 brisk. Unable to count fingers in
LLQ of L eye. Poor acuity in bilateral eyes (___). On 
fundoscopic exam,
darkened area in L retina (per ophtho, normal variant). On 
confrontational testing he does not gaze to the left, but noted 
by examiner to have full EOM strength when distracted. No 
nystagmus. V1-V3 without deficits to light touch bilaterally. No 
facial movement asymmetry. Hearing intact to finger rub
bilaterally.  Palate elevation symmetric. Trapezius strength ___ 
bilaterally. Tongue midline.

- Motor - Normal bulk and tone. Initial no drift, upon examiner 
remark of drift, he has downward drift in left arm. No 
asterixis. Strength is full in the right hemiside. There is 
diffuse giveway weakness in the left side without an upper motor 
neuron pattern of weakness. There is positive Hoover sign of the 
left hip flexors.

- Sensory - Decreased sensation light touch throughout entire L
left (50% relative to R). ___ sensation to light touch
elsewhere (R leg, torso, bilateral arms). 

-DTRs:
  Bi Tri ___ Pat Ach
L  2  2    2    2   2
R  2  2    2    2   2
Plantar response flexor bilaterally.

- Coordination - No dysmetria with finger to nose testing 
bilaterally. Good speed and intact cadence with rapid 
alternating movements. There is a large amplitude direction and 
frequency-changing tremor of the trunk and extremities which 
suppresses on distraction.

- Gait - Ambulates to bathroom safely.