Admission Physical Exam:
Neurologic examination: 
Mental status:  
He is awake, alert, and cooperative with the exam.  He is
oriented to name, place and date.  He is attentive, able to say
months of the year backwards.  Fund of knowledge is intact.  He
is able to provide the last three presidents and is able to
detail important historical details.  Language is fluent, but
speech is flat and lacks intonation.  Left, right 
differentiation
and calculations are intact.  No evidence of ideational,
ideomotor, or limb kinetic apraxia.  No frontal reflease signs,
including glabellar, palmomental, and grasp reflexes.  
Cranial nerves:  
Pupils are equal and reactive.  Extraocular movements are full. 
Patient initially had abnormal eye and eyelid movements that he
could not control and I examined him while occurring.  Patient's
eyelids were fluttering rhythmically at a high frequency and on
primary gaze he was having rapid movements of his eyes in the
horizontal plane.  I could not determine a fast or slow phase of
the eye movement.  I asked him to look medially and laterally 
and
during the saccade and the end gaze he continued to have the
abnormal horizontal eye movement.  He could look upward and
downward and, again, during the pursuit and maintenance of the
upward and downward gaze he continued to have the abnormal
horizontal eye movement.  I left patient and came back later to
examine him and tried to wait til he had abnormal eye/eyelid
movement, but then he disclosed to me he could perform the
abnormal movements on command.  The voluntary abnormal movement
was identical to the "involuntary" abnormal movement described
above.  Facial sensation and movement are intact and symmetric. 
Hearing is intact to finger rub bilaterally.  Patient's speech 
is
slow, but not dysarthric.  Palate elevates symmetrically.  SCM
and trapezius are full strength bilaterally.  Tongue is midline. 


Motor:  
Bulk and tone is normal.  Patient had no abnormal arm or leg
movements.  Patient has no pronator drift, orbiting, and/or
slowing of movement in one arm compared to the other.  Patient
gives poor effort on confrontational motor examination.  He, for
example, will provide good initial resistance and but then will
stop providing resistance and let the tested muscle go limp. 
There is no pattern of weakness.  I did not detect any asymmetry
in strength on his initial good efforts when testing muscles of
arms and legs.  
Sensation:  
Pinprick is intact in the hands and feet.  Position sense is
intact in the toes bilaterally, even to small upward and 
downward
excursions.  
Coordination:  
No rebound.  No dysdiadocokinesia.  Finger-nose-finger and
finger-to-nose are intact without dysmetria bilaterally.    
Reflexes:  
Patient's reflexes are 1 throughout.  Toes are downgoing
bilaterally.  
Gait: 
Patient told me on first examination that he could not walk, but
when I returned to ___ him he was OK with walking and was
able to do so normally.  

Discharge Physical Exam:
-Mental Status: Alert, oriented, attentive. Language is fluent
with intact repetition and comprehension. Normal prosody. There
were no paraphasic errors. Pt. was able to name both high and 
low
frequency objects. Able to read without difficulty. Speech was
not dysarthric. Able to follow both midline and appendicular
commands. There was no evidence of apraxia or neglect.  

He had an episode of difficulty speaking, while on EEG. This 
difficulty speaking was associated with eyes rolling upwards and 
shaking. He was conscious and able to follow commands during 
event, and all movements were distractible. 

CN  
I: not tested  
II,III: VFF to confrontation, pupils 4mm->2mm bilaterally. 
III,IV,VI: EOMI, no ptosis. No nystagmus. Patient can 
voluntarily create the movement of concern when eyes are fixated 
ahead. These movements do not interrupt saccades, and do not 
occur spontaneously. 
V: sensation intact V1-V3 to LT  
VII: Symmetric forehead raise, eye closure, and smile. 
VIII: hears finger rub bilaterally  
IX,X: palate elevates symmetrically, uvula midline  
XI: SCM/trapezeii ___ bilaterally  
XII: tongue protrudes midline, no dysarthria  

Motor: Normal bulk and tone, no rigidity; no asterixis or
myoclonus. No pronator drift.  
  Delt Bi Tri WE FE Grip   
  C5   C6 C7  C6 C7 C8/T1   
L 5    ___  5  5    
R 5    ___  5  5    
 
  IP Quad ___ PF  
  L2 L3   L4-S1 L4 L5  S1/S2  
L 5  5     5    ___ 
R 5  5     5    ___

Reflex: No clonus  
  Bi Tri Bra Pat An Plantar  
  C5 C7  C6  L4  S1 CST  
L ___   2   ___ Flexor  
R ___   2   ___ Flexor 

-Sensory: No deficits to light touch throughout. 
 
-Coordination: No intention tremor, dysdiadochokinesia noted. No
dysmetria on FNF bilaterally.  

-Gait: Good initiation. Narrow-based.