Admission Exam:
Vitals: 
97.1, 96,150/93, 18, 100% RA 
General: Awake, cooperative, NAD.  
HEENT: NC/AT, MMM.  No lesions or vesicles visualized in the
oropharynx or left ear
Neck: Supple. No nuchal rigidity  
Pulmonary: Lungs CTA bilaterally   
Cardiac: RRR, nl. S1S2
Abdomen: soft, NT/ND.  
Extremities: WWP.  There is a small clean abrasion on the
anterior aspect of her right heel.  No significant erythema.
Skin: no rashes or lesions noted.  

Neurologic:  
-Mental Status: Alert, oriented. Anxious and speaking rapidly. 
Intermittently tearful.  When asked about social stresses, she
begins crying.  Able to relate history without difficulty.
Attentive to examiner and task. Language is fluent with intact
comprehension. Normal prosody. There were no paraphasic errors. 
Speech was not dysarthric. Able to follow both midline and
appendicular commands. There was no evidence of apraxia or
neglect.  
 
-Cranial Nerves:  
 II, III, IV, VI: PERRL 5 to 3mm on right, 4.5to 2.5mm on left. 
Different similar in light and dark.  EOMI without nystagmus.
Normal saccades. VFF to confrontation. Fundoscopic exam revealed
no papilledema, no disc pallor.  V: She reports about 40% of 
normal sensation in principally the left V2 and V3 distribution, 
though it spares the more lateral
aspect of her cheek.  The decreased sensation does split the
midline at the chin.
 VII: There is subtle left nasolabial fold flattening at rest. 
There is clear asymmetry and activation of the left lower face
during spontaneous conversation as well as during exam 
maneuvers.
She has photos on her phone demonstrating a symmetric smile
previously.  Air escapes her left lips with cheek puff.  Eyebrow
elevation and eyelid closure are both symmetrically strong
 VIII: Hearing intact to finger-rub bilaterally.  
 IX, X: Palate elevates symmetrically.  
 XI: ___ strength in trapezii and SCM bilaterally.  
 XII: Tongue protrudes in midline.  

-Motor: Normal bulk, tone throughout. No pronator drift
bilaterally.   No adventitious movements, such as tremor, noted.
No asterixis noted.  She has full strength in all major muscle
groups in the upper and lower extremities.

-Sensory: Excluding the face as detailed above, no deficits to
light touch, pinprick, proprioception throughout. No extinction
to DSS.  

-DTRs:  
    Bi Tri ___ Pat Ach  
 L  ___    3    2  
 R  ___    2+   2  
 Plantar response was flexor bilaterally.  

-Coordination: No intention tremor.  There is a subtle 
clumsiness
in the left upper extremity.  Finger tapping and pronation
supination with the left hand is is little more clumsy than
expected compared to the right.  I wonder if there is a
suggestion of overshoot with the left hand.  However, there is
otherwise no dysmetria on FNF or HKS bilaterally.  

Exam ___:
emotional when talking about the events in the mall. Alert, 
attentive, language fluent and intact, without dysarthria. ___, 
no RAPD, no red desaturation. VFF. EOMI, no nystagmus or INO. 
Face with subtle nasolabial fold flattening on the L. Was able 
to pry her eyelids and mouth corner open on the L. Hearing 
normal. Taste intact to cranberry juice. V1 intact, V2-3 
decreased to LT and cold on the L, not absent). Tongue midline. 
Shoulder shrug good. No drift. Strength full throughout. Normal 
tone. No dysmetria on FNF or HTS. DTRs symmetrical,
present. Toes down. No sensory level and sensation intact to 
cold and LT throughout. Gait normal.