INITIAL PSYCH EXAM IN ED
Vitals: T98.7  HR  110   BP  132/81  RR  20  O2 sat. 96% RA  
Neurological:  
Non-focal, although she loses track of the exam's tasks at times 
often forgetting what she is supposed to be doing.   
*Attention (digit span, MOYB): seems distractable; answers "I 
don't know" with most asks, Unable to report ___ forward and 
unable to report days of week forwards. Able to start counting 
to 10 but stopped midway and asked for help. 
*Orientation: can say first name but not last name, ___ 
date or location (answers "I don't know" even with prompting)
*Memory: Cannot register 3 words. When played music from a 
favorite artist, she says she "may" have heard it before. When 
shown pictures of two singers and asked if it is that person, to 
the first she says "no" correctly, then to the image of the 
singer says "maybe". 
*Fund of knowledge:  Cannot name news items
*Speech: Sparse, mostly says "I don't know", little to no 
spontaneous speech
*Language: fluent when she speaks. Cannot come up with any words 
starting with "B"
Executive Function/Visuospatial/Limbic Function: Does Luria 
sequence motions with a lot of effort and repetition but cannot 
learn the sequence. Able to do complex constructions with 
fingers. Unable to copy alternating sequence of triangles and 
squares. When told the "___ story, she expresses a 
slight smile, but cannot explain. We put on a song by one of her 
favorite artists; she has a slight smile, at times able to say 
some of the ___. 
   
Mental Status:
*Appearance/Behavior:  mildly disheveled, neatly dressed. she 
appears somewhat afraid/suspicious but is calm. Very little 
spontaneous movement, sits still for majority of interview, legs 
crossed with religious text lying on her bed. 
*Mood and Affect: "I feel tired"; affect is blunted, wary
*Thought process:  answers "I don't know" to pretty much 
anything. When asked things like "did you go to work today" says 
"sure, probably" unconvincingly (as if she just recognizes that 
one would go to work on a ___ but is not truly sure).  
*Thought Content: No psychotic content expressed, though family 
relates statements , no thoughts/plans/intent to harm or kill 
self
*Judgment and Insight:  impaired

MEDICINE EXAM HOSPITAL DAY ONE
VITALS: last 24-hour vitals were reviewed.
CONSTITUTIONAL: NAD
EYE: sclerae anicteric, EOMI
ENT: audition grossly intact, MMM, OP clear 
LYMPHATIC: No LAD
CARDIAC: RRR, no M/R/G, JVP not elevated, no edema
PULM: normal effort of breathing, LCAB
GI: soft, NT, ND, NABS
GU: no CVA tenderness, suprapubic region soft and nontender
MSK: no visible joint effusions or acute deformities.
DERM: no visible rash. No jaundice.

NEURO: AAOx3 (with some thought prior to naming the hospital 
correctly). She is able to do months of the year backward, read 
to be from a book, tell me what she had for breakfast, do 
arithmetic, and other basic cognitive tasks. She thinks 
pointedly about each of these, as though remembering how to 
answer my questions from distant past knowledge that she has to 
work hard to recall.
CN II-XII intact and symmetric. 
Normal gait. 
No tremors or hyperreflexia. 

PSYCH: 
Appearance - well-maintained  
Affect - marked by a warm optimism that seems inappropriate to 
her situation. 
Thought content - no overt hallucinations. No bizarre delusions. 
Seems somewhat paranoid about MRI contrast, which she cannot 
offer a logical explanation for.
Thought process - Each thought seems to float to the surface in 
relative isolation, without much flow of logical thought process 
to connect them. 
Insight - Poor. She projects a sort of childlike naiivity about 
her current situation.  

   DISCHARGE EXAM
VS: Temp: 98.1 PO BP: 155/93 L Lying HR: 98 RR: 18 O2
sat: 98% O2 delivery: Ra 

GENERAL: Alert and in no apparent distress
EYES: Anicteric, pupils equally round
ENT: Ears and nose without visible erythema, masses, or trauma. 
Oropharynx without visible lesion, erythema or exudate
CV: Heart regular, no murmur, no S3, no S4.  No JVD.
RESP: Lungs clear to auscultation with good air movement
bilaterally.  Breathing is non-labored
GI: + BS, soft, NT, ND, no R/G
GU: No suprapubic fullness or tenderness to palpation
MSK: Lower ext warm without edema
SKIN: No rashes or ulcerations noted
NEURO: AOx3, CN II-XII intact, ___ strength all extremities,
sensation grossly intact to light touch throughout, gait nl, no
meningismus
PSYCH: withdrawn but makes eye contact and answers questions
appropriately