ON ADMISSION:
EXAM:
Vitals: Refused vitals on arrival. 

General: Dressed in hospital attire, appears stated age. In no
acute distress. 
Cardiac: RRR, normal S1 and S2 with no murmurs, rubs, or 
gallops.
Respiratory: Lungs clear to auscultation bilaterally
Abdominal: Normoactive bowel sounds, abdomen soft, nontender,
nondistended. 
Skin: No rashes, lesions, or bruising noted. 

EXAM:  
Neurological:  
-Station and gait: Normal station and gait 
-Tone and strength: ___ in upper and lower extremities b/l, with
normal bulk and tone. 
-Cranial nerves: CN II-XII intact
-Abnormal movements: Noted bilateral tremor on exam right upper
extremity worse than left upper extremity.  
-Frontal release: Not assessed
   
Mental Status:
-Appearance: Hispanic male appearing stated age, in hospital
attire, with gray hair, beard, multiple tattoos over wrist,
covered by a blanket. 
-Behavior: Poor eye contact with mild psychomotor retardation on
exam.  
-Attitude: Guarded, irritable and superficially cooperative 
-Mood: "sleepy"
-Affect: Restricted, dysphoric
-Speech: Normal rate, decreased volume, and tone
-Thought process: Grossly linear and goal directed, though
responses were notable for poverty of speech (very little
elaboration of answers)
-Thought Content:
---Safety: Currently denies any SI or HI, though command 
auditory
hallucinations are continuing to indicate to patient that he
should harm himself and others. Did not appear to be attending 
to
internal stimuli.  
-Insight: Limited
-Judgment: Poor

Cognition: 
Patient stated that he is at ___, today is ___. He stated that current president is ___ and prior was
___, refused to answer what the similarity is between a
"bicycle" and a "train". Patient states there are 5 quarters in
$1.25. Patient did not cooperate with remainder of exam and
requested to sleep. 

ON DISCHARGE:
Mental Status Exam:
Appearance: Well-groomed
facial expression: friendly, smiling on approach
build: WNL
Behavior: engaging, cooperative
Eye contact: direct
psychomotor: no abnormal involuntary movements, gait - normal,
Speech: normal rate, volume and tone
Mood/affect "OK", euthymic, no anxiety
Thought Process/content: reality oriented, goal directed, denies
SI/HI, denies AH/VH/delusions
Intellectual Functioning: decreased concentration
Oriented: x4
Memory: Grossly intact 
insight: Fair
Judgment: Fair