General appearance: Looks well
98.1 80 166/80 18 100% RA 
 
General: Awake, cooperative, no apparent distress. 
HEENT: Normocephalic, atraumatic, with no scleral icterus noted.
Mucus membranes moist, no lesions noted in oropharynx
Neck: Supple.  No carotid bruits appreciated. No orbital bruits. 

Cardiac: Regular rate, normal S1 and S2 no murmurs, rubs or
gallops.  
Pulmonary: Lungs clear to auscultation bilaterally.
Abdomen: Soft and nontender with no hepatosplenomegaly and 
normal
bowel sounds.
Extremities: Warm, well-perfused. Calves soft and non-tender and
good peripheral pulses.
Skin: No lesions or rashes.
Skull & Spine: No spinal tenderness. Good range of motion of 
head
with no pain.
Neck flexion and extension are normal.
 
Neurological examination:
Mental Status:
The patient is alert, fully oriented and attentive. The patient
had good knowledge of current events. Language is fluent with
intact repetition and comprehension and normal prosody. There is
no evidence of aphasia and patient was able to name both high 
and
low frequency objects. There were no paraphasic errors. Speech
was not dysarthric. Patient is able to read without difficulty.
Patient was able to name ___ backward without difficulty.
Memory was intact and patient was able to register3 objects and
recall ___ at 5 minutes. Patient had intact comprehension and 
was
able to follow both midline and appendicular commands normally.
There was no evidence of apraxia or neglect. There is no
left-right agnosia. 

Cranial Nerves:
The sense of smell is not tested.
Visual acuity was ___ in left and ___ in right eye. The
visual fields are full to confrontation. Fundoscopy revealed
normal optic discs and retinal vessels. The pupils react 
normally
to light directly and consensually 3 to 2 mm bilaterally.
Eye movements are normal and saccades are smooth with no 
saccadic
intrusions.
Sensation on the face is intact to light touch. Normal strength
in muscles of mastication.
Facial movements are normal and symmetric and facial power is
full throughout with no evidence of facial weakness.
Hearing is intact to finger rub bilaterally.
The palate elevates in the midline.
Neck rotation, flexion and shoulder shrug are normal and
symmetric.
The tongue protrudes in the midline and is of normal appearance.
Good normal velocity tongue movements.
 
Motor System:
Appearance, tone, power are normal in all 4 limbs. There are no
adventitious movements

Reflexes:
The tendon reflexes are present, symmetric and normal. ___
was negative bilaterally and there was no evidence of clonus. 
The
plantar reflexes are flexor.
 
Sensory System:
Sensation is intact to pin prick, light touch, vibration sense,
and position sense in all extremities and trunk.
 
Coordination:
There is no ataxia. The finger/nose test and heel/shin tests are
performed accurately.
 
Gait and Stance:
The Romberg is negative. Tandem gait walking is normal.