Admission Exam
VITALS: 98.3, 71, 128/62, 16, 98% RA
GENERAL: Alert and in no apparent distress
EYES: Anicteric, no conjunctival injection, pupils equally round
ENT: Ears and nose without visible erythema, masses, or trauma.
Oropharynx without visible lesions, erythema or exudate.
CV: Heart regular, no murmur, no S3, no S4.
RESP: Lungs clear to auscultation with good air movement
bilaterally.  Breathing is non-labored
GI: Abdomen soft, non-tender in all quadrants, non-distended. No
rebound or guarding.
GU: No suprapubic fullness or tenderness to palpation.
MSK: Moves all extremities, warm and well perfused, 2+ DP pulses
bilaterally. 2+ bilateral ___ edema.
SKIN: Large ulcer with small central area of sparing on the left
shin, with surrounding hyperpigmentation and erythema, slightly
warm but non-tender. No active purulent drainage from the large
ulcer. Two smaller ulcers slightly promixal and medical to the
large ulcer also without purulence.
NEURO: Alert, oriented, face symmetric, gaze conjugate with EOM,
speech fluent, moves all limbs
PSYCH: pleasant, appropriate mood and affect

Discharge Exam
VITALS: Afebrile and vital signs stable (see eFlowsheet)
___ 0721 Temp: 98.1 PO BP: 114/53 HR: 62 RR: 17 O2 sat: 96% 
O2 delivery: RA 
GENERAL: Alert and in no apparent distress
EYES: Anicteric, pupils equally round
ENT: Ears and nose without visible erythema, masses, or trauma.  
Oropharynx without visible lesion, erythema or exudate
CV: Heart regular.  No JVD. 
RESP: Lungs clear to auscultation with good air movement 
bilaterally.  Breathing is non-labored
GI: Abdomen soft, non-distended, non-tender to palpation.  Bowel 
sounds present.  No HSM
MSK: Neck supple, moves all extremities, strength grossly full 
and symmetric bilaterally in all limbs
SKIN: Extremities warm and well-perfused, with the left lower 
extremity having the chronic changes previously described.  The 
posterior left proximal calf with some fluctuance. Leg currently 
bandaged. 
NEURO: Alert, oriented, face symmetric, gaze conjugate with 
EOMI, speech fluent, moves all limbs, sensation to light touch 
grossly intact throughout
PSYCH: pleasant, appropriate affect