Admission Physical Exam:  
General exam was notable for a well-nourished woman in no acute
distress.  She was very pleasant and interactive.  HEENT exam 
was
benign.  Heart was regular without murmurs gallops or rubs. 
Lungs were clear to auscultation bilaterally.  The abdomen was
soft nontender nondistended.  The extremities were without 
edema,
cyanosis.

Neurologic exam was notable for alert and oriented to self,
place, month date and year.  She is able to name the past 5
presidents.  She was inattentive, difficulty with months of the
year backwards with perseveration noted.  She could perform days
of the week backwards.  Her naming was intact to items on the
stroke card.  In describing the ___ picture, she was
fluent, though with occasional paraphasic errors.  She did not
have evidence of ideomotor apraxia to simple tasks including
combing hair and brushing her teeth.  She was able to follow
cross body commands without definitive left right confusion.  
She
could follow complex, multistep commands.  She could not perform
17+5.  She could register 3 items, with 0 out of 3 recall at 5
minutes.  With multiple choice, she was able to get 1 out of 3. 
On Luria sequence testing, she initially was able to perform 2
cycles, before breaking down and perseverating on the first 2
steps. Cranial nerve testing was notable for equally reactive 
pupils
from 3->2 mm.  Her extraocular movements were intact, with 
square
wave jerks noted.  Visual fields were full to confrontation. 
Facial sensation was intact to light touch bilaterally.  There
was no facial droop.  Hearing was intact.  Palate elevates
symmetrically.  Tongue was midline without fasciculations.
Motor testing reveals normal bulk and tone, without pronation or
drift.  There is no bradykinesia or rigidity.  There was no
tremor or asterixis or myoclonus noted.  Strength was full in 
all
muscle groups tested. Sensory exam showed no deficits to light 
touch, pinprick or cold sensation.  Proprioception was intact at 
the great toes
bilaterally. Deep tendon reflexes were 2+ throughout, without 
evidence of
hyperreflexia.  There was no clonus at the ankles or upgoing
toes. Coordination testing revealed no dysmetria on 
finger-nose-finger
or heel to shin.  Gait testing revealed a narrow based and 
stable
gait.  Romberg was negative.

Discharge physical exam: 
Alert, oriented to ___", she initially says 
___ but then corrects with encouragement to 
___. Language was
fluent with intact comprehension and normal prosody. She was 
able
to name high and low frequency items on stroke card. Speech was 
not dysarthric. Able to follow both midline and appendicular 
commands. She had some constructional apraxia. No acalculia on 
testing today (previously had), no agraphia, no finger agnosia 
on discharge (previously had), but did have some difficulty with 
right-left commands which she could perform with more 
concentration. Had agraphesthesia bilaterally. 
-Cranial Nerves:
 II, III, IV, VI:  PERRL 3 to 2mm and brisk. EOMI with square
wave jerks present.
 VII: No facial droop, facial musculature symmetric.
 XII: Tongue protrudes in midline.
-Motor: Normal bulk, increased tone at right and left ankles. No
pronator drift bilaterally. At rest, right ankle is in inverted 
position. suppressible athetoid movements of her lower 
extremities bilaterally.  
-Sensory: No deficits to light touch or proprioception.
-Coordination: finger to nose intact