VS 98 85 163/94 18 100% RA
General: NAD, lying in bed comfortably. 
Head: NC/AT, no conjunctival icterus, no oropharyngeal lesions 
Neck: Supple, no nuchal rigidity, no meningismus
CV: RRR

Neurologic Examination:

- Mental Status - 
Awake, alert, oriented x 3. Attention to examiner easily 
attained
and maintained. Concentration maintained when recalling months
backwards. Recalls a coherent history. Structure of speech
demonstrates fluency with full sentences, intact repetition, and
intact verbal comprehension. Able to name hammock  and other
stroke pictures but difficulty with cacuts and feather - he
states he would not expect himself to be able to recognize these
with such simple pictures. Normal prosody. No dysarthria. No
evidence of hemineglect. No left-right agnosia.

- Cranial Nerves -
II. Equal and reactive pupils. Visual fields were full to finger
counting.  
III, IV, VI. smooth and full extraocular movements without
diplopia or nystagmus.  
V. facial sensation was intact, muscles of mastication with full
strength
VII. delayed activation of the R face but no droop
VIII. hearing was intact to finger rub bilaterally.  
IX, X. symmetric palate elevation and symmetric tongue 
protrusion
with full movement.
XI. SCM and trapezius were of normal strength and volume.

- Motor -
Muscule bulk and tone were normal. No pronation, no drift. No
tremor or asterixis.
  Delt   Bic  Tri ECR Fext Fflx IP   Quad   Ham   TA   Gas  
L  5      5    ___    5    5      5     5    5     5
R  5      5    ___    5    5      5     5    5     5

- Sensation -
Intact to light touch, decreased to proprioception mildly at the
great toes and more impaired at the little toes.  

- DTRs -
 Bic    Tri   ___   Quad   Gastroc
L 2      2      2      0        0
R 2      2      2      0        0
Plantar response extensor vs withdrawl bilaterally.

- Cerebellar -
Mild past pointing with finger to nose testing bilaterally but
the patient appears to be rushing. Normal HTS bilaterally. Good
speed and intact cadence with rapid alternating movements. No
truncal ataxia when sitting on the side of the bed. Negative ___ to the L, he does have worsening of dizziness with R
sided ___ but refuses to put his head fully into
position over the side of the bed and there is no nystagmus.
Negative head impulse test.

- Gait -
Walks with a sway, sidesteps to the R, then to the L. + 
Rhomberg.
- ___ (walks forwards)