Admission Physical Exam

Presentation vitals: 
Temperature: 97.6 
Pulse: 120 
Blood pressure: 150/68 
Respiratory rate: 18 
Oxygen saturation: 95% RA

General examiantion: 
General: Comfortable and in no distress 
Head: Right eye cloudy (chronic per caretaker) 
Cardio: Regular rate and rhythm, warm, no peripheral edema 
Lungs: Unlabored breathing 
Abdomen: Soft, non tender, non distended 
Skin: She has fresh left facial cuts and bruises 

Mental status: 
Patient is awake and regards me on both sides.   She smiles at 
me
and says hello.  Patient says that her name is ___, 
but
when I ask where she is at she points down and states "here". 
Patient says "yes" when month of the year is asked.  Patient
points to her eye, instead of closing eyes when asked.  Patient
does not stick out tongue to command, but will copy me when I
stick out my tongue. No glabellar reflex, but prominent grasp
reflexes. 

Cranial nerves: 
Patient's left pupil is larger than right by about one
millimeter, but both are briskly reactive to light.  Patient's
right eye is esophoric, but with both eyes she can bury her
sclera on lateral gaze.  Patient's face appears symmetric, but
she is in a hard cervical collar.  Patient has a thick 
dysarthric
voice which I am told is her baseline.  Patient can stick her
tongue out to midline.    

Motor: 
Patient with significant paratonia in the arms prohibiting
assessment of tone, but the tone in her legs is normal.  Patient
is able to copy my movements and there is no evidence of 
pronator
drift or orbiting.  Patient can push me away with her arms 
flexed
at 45 degree angle with equal strength.  Patient will not move
her legs to commands and when I lift them up there is a slow
drift downwards.  I pinched both of her toes and she had strong
forceful withdrawal that was symmetric. 

Sensory: 
Patient withdrawals to gentle pinching of her toes. 

Reflexes: 
Patient has normal symmetric reflexes.  I cannot reliably assess
plantar reflex given strong withdrawal.

Discharge Physical Exam
VITALS:
24 HR Data (last updated ___ @ 1139)
    Temperature: 98.0, Blood Pressure: 92/60, Heart rate: 79, 
Respiratory rate: 18, Oxygen saturation: 96%, O2 delivery: Ra
 General: Awake, cooperative, NAD.
 HEENT: NC/AT, no scleral icterus noted, MMM, no lesions noted 
in
oropharynx
 Neck: Supple, no carotid bruits appreciated. No nuchal rigidity
 Pulmonary: Lungs CTA bilaterally without R/R/W
 Cardiac: RRR, nl. S1S2, no M/R/G noted
 Abdomen: soft, NT/ND, normoactive bowel sounds, no masses or
organomegaly noted.
 Extremities: No ___ edema.
 Skin: no rashes or lesions noted.

Neurologic:

-Mental Status: Awake, alert, regarding examiner on both sides,
smiles pleasantly, says hello, says her name correctly. does not
completely answer all questions or follow all instructions, but
does better with mimicking or with repeated encouragement. 
groggy
as she did not sleep much overnight. prominent dysarthria, which
is baseline as per group home attendant. has a prominent black
eye on the left side stemming from the fall that led to her
presentation to the hospital.

-Cranial Nerves:
 II, III, IV, VI:  PERRL and brisk, left pupil is slightly 
larger
than right pupil. EOMI without nystagmus. Normal saccades. 
 V: Facial sensation intact to light touch.
 VII: No facial droop, facial musculature symmetric.
 VIII: Hearing intact to conversation
 IX, X: Palate elevates symmetrically.
 XI: ___ strength in trapezii and SCM bilaterally.
 XII: Tongue protrudes in midline.

-Motor: Normal bulk, tone throughout. There is paratonia
throughout. No pronator drift bilaterally.
 No adventitious movements, such as tremor, noted. No asterixis
noted. Formal confrontation testing was limited but patient was
moving all 4 extremities at least antigravity symmetrically.

-Sensory: No deficits to light touch. No extinction to DSS.

-DTRs:
   Bi Tri ___ Pat Ach
 L  2  2    2    2   1
 R  2  2    2    2   1
 Plantar response was extensor bilaterally.

-Coordination: could not assess, no apparent ataxia while laying
in bed

-Gait: deferred for safety